The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Clevedon Case, by Nancy Oakley, et al


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.



Title: The Clevedon Case


Author: Nancy Oakley



Release Date: May 15, 2022  [eBook #68091]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CLEVEDON CASE***


This etext was transcribed by Les Bowler.

                       WHAT THIS STORY IS ABOUT
The well-known authority on criminology, Dennis Holt, inherited a
house in a remote village, the sort of place in which, to quote
himself, “nothing ever happens.”  One night at fifty-three minutes
past eleven (he was always meticulously accurate about time), his
attention was attracted by a peremptory tapping on the window pane.  A
moment later, the lower sash was slowly pushed up and a young girl
appeared.

“Let me in!” she whispered.  “Please—I have hurt myself.”

That was the beginning of a bewildering series of happenings in the
life of Dennis Holt.  Suddenly he found himself precipitated into the
midst of a bewildering mystery, which at one time seemed to threaten
even his own liberty.

Patiently piecing together the ascertained facts, Holt eventually
presented a remarkable reconstruction of what had taken place on that
dramatic night.

                                   THE
                                 CLEVEDON
                               : : CASE : :


                                    BY
                               NANCY & JOHN
                                  OAKLEY

                                * * * * *

                               PHILADELPHIA
                         J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY

                                * * * * *

    Printed in Great Britain by Wyman & Sons Ltd., London, Reading and
                                Fakenham.




CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                             PAGE
         I.  A MIDNIGHT VISITOR                        9
        II.  THE TRAGEDY AT WHITE TOWERS              23
       III.  A MEETING IN THE DARK                    34
        IV.  THE SILVER-HEADED HATPIN                 45
         V.  KITTY CLEVEDON AND RONALD THOYNE         59
        VI.  A NEW SENSATION                          70
       VII.  EVIDENCE AT THE INQUEST                  80
      VIII.  THE STORY OF A QUARREL                   94
        IX.  WHAT KITTY CLEVEDON SAID                105
         X.  AN INVITATION FROM LADY CLEVEDON        117
        XI.  A VISIT FROM RONALD THOYNE              129
       XII.  RONALD THOYNE DISAPPEARS                145
      XIII.  THE VICAR’S STORY                       154
       XIV.  KITTY SENDS A TELEGRAM                  163
        XV.  ON RONALD THOYNE’S YACHT                172
       XVI.  THE MYSTERY OF BILLY CLEVEDON           185
      XVII.  MORE ABOUT BILLY CLEVEDON               193
     XVIII.  THE ANONYMOUS LETTERS                   205
       XIX.  THE HAIRPIN CLUE                        217
        XX.  STILL MORE ABOUT BILLY CLEVEDON         227
       XXI.  WHY TULMIN BLACKMAILED CLEVEDON         239
      XXII.  MORE ANONYMOUS LETTERS                  251
     XXIII.  TULMIN’S QUEER STORY                    263
      XXIV.  THE WRATH OF RONALD THOYNE              275
       XXV.  THE STORY OF MARY GRAINGER              286
      XXVI.  NORA LEPLEY’S EXPLANATION               297
     XXVII.  WHO KILLED PHILIP CLEVEDON              306




CHAPTER I
A MIDNIGHT VISITOR


I BECAME mixed up with the Clevedon case—the Cartordale Mystery, as it
has been called—in curious fashion.  True, it was to some extent in my
line of business, though I do not actually earn my living by
straightening out tangles.  With me it is all a matter of “copy.”

You may or may not have read my various books—there are eight of them
now—on criminology.  Their preparation has led me into all sorts of queer
by-ways and has given me a curiously clear and analytical insight into
the mind of the criminal.  I have solved many mysteries—you will forgive
the apparent boastfulness, but I have no useful Watson to detail my
exploits—but I stop there, with solving them, I mean.  When I know the
answer, I hand the whole matter over to the police.  “There is your man
(or woman)—take him,” I say.  And sometimes they do take him—and hang
him.  But occasionally they reply, “But we can’t take him—we couldn’t
prove it against him.”  That, however, is no business of mine.  I am a
scientist, not a police official, and have nothing to do with the foolery
of their law courts or the flummery of what they call their rules of
evidence.

I have supplied the answer to the conundrum and that suffices me.  The
mystery and its solution go into my notebooks, to be used eventually for
my own purpose, it may be to illustrate a theory, or perhaps to
demonstrate a scientific fact.  I have no desire to pose and no intention
of posing as a worker of miracles.

There is nothing marvellous about my methods nor wonderful in the
results.  I do but proceed from fact to fact, as you will see in this
narrative, wherein I have set forth exactly what happened, however
foolish it may make me look.  The reader will accompany me step by step
in my investigation of the Clevedon mystery and will learn precisely how
the solution, which so bewildered and astonished the little group in
Cartordale, came to me.  You will see me groping in the dark, then you
will discover, as I did, a pin-point of light which grows wider and wider
until the whole story stands revealed.  And if you guess the solution
before I did, that will show that you are a cleverer detective than I am,
which may very easily be.

I did not, by the way, go to Cartordale for the purpose of investigating
this particular mystery.  I became involved in it almost involuntarily.
It was a queerly tangled skein enough, and that of itself would have been
sufficient fascination to drag me into it, though I was deep in it long
before any intention or even desire to solve the puzzle manifested
itself.  As a rule I carefully select my cases.  Some appeal to me,
others do not.  But in this instance I was not entirely a free agent.  I
was in it before I quite knew where I was going.  That being so, it may
be interesting to explain how I came to be at Cartordale at all.

My Aunt Emily, to put it briefly, left me the house and the money that
took me into the wilds of Peakshire.  I had never met her in the flesh,
and she, as far as I know, had never set eyes on me.  In point of fact,
she never forgave my father for taking to himself a second wife after my
mother died.  But that is family history and dry stuff.  Aunt Emily made
amends for past neglect by her will.  She left me about eight hundred a
year from investments, and the house at Cartordale, both very useful,
though I was not exactly a poor man.  My books have provided me with a
fairly steady income for some years.

Stone Hollow, the house I had inherited, was a square, rather
gloomy-looking building—outwardly sombre, at all events—situated at the
head of Cartordale, a wild and romantic valley in the heart of Peakshire,
some sixteen miles from the large industrial city of Midlington.  The
name, Stone Hollow, had a comparatively recent derivation, arising from
the fact that the house was built on the site of, and largely on the
profits from, a now disused stone quarry.

The house itself stood on a sort of broad shelf, and behind it a tall
hill sprang almost perpendicularly upwards, still showing on its face the
marks and scars of former quarrying operations, though Nature was already
busy trying to hide the evidences of man’s vandalism behind a cover of
green and brown.  Before the house, the ground sloped gently downwards
towards the Dale, while to the left was a stretch of heather clad
moorland lying between Stone Hollow and White Towers, the residence of
Sir Philip Clevedon.

It sounds rather well in description, but I will frankly confess that
after a very few days at Cartordale I was bored.  Though I had travelled
widely, I had never actually lived out of London and was always very
quickly eager to be back there.  At first, I had done my best to persuade
myself that a country life was really the ideal and that it would provide
me with quiet and isolation that would be useful for literary work.  But
I soon arrived at the limit of my resources in self-deception.  Which
brings me to the night of February 23rd.

I was lolling on the couch in the room I had made my study, pretending to
work and succeeding very badly.

“Nothing ever happens in a place like this,” I said aloud, with a yawn.
“I should become a hopeless vegetable if I lived here.  I couldn’t even
write another book.  There isn’t a chapter in the whole blessed place.
Neither robbery nor murder ever happens.  The folk wouldn’t know the
meaning of the words without looking them up in a dictionary.  Honesty is
the badge of all their tribe, and honesty, if commendable, is dull.”

I took up a batch of manuscript from the desk at my elbow and began to
read in rather desultory fashion, making a correction here and there with
a pencil.

“Another delusion shattered,” I murmured.  “They say one can write so
much better in the quiet of the country than amid the bustle and
distractions of town.  That is bunkum.  This one can’t, anyway.  I
thought I would have made a good start with this book, but I have done
next to nothing, and what there is of it is rotten.  I could do more work
in a week in London than I shall do in three months of this.  I think
I’ll be getting back next week.”

But I was wrong in saying that nothing ever happened in Cartordale.
Adventure was even at that moment coming towards me with very hurried
footsteps.

The time—it is essential always to be precise in details—was fifty-three
minutes past eleven, and the date February 23rd.

It came, the beginning of the story, with a quick, almost peremptory
tapping on the window-pane and then the bottom sash was slowly pushed up.
I turned to the desk and took a revolver from one of the small drawers,
then strode across the room and raised the blind with a quick rattle,
half expecting that my visitor would reveal himself in the shape of a
burglar.  What I saw brought even me to a standstill, little susceptible
as I am to surprises of any sort.

My visitor was not a burglar—at least, not a male of that species—but a
girl, who looked young enough to be in her teens, though she may have
been a year or two outside them, and a great deal too pretty to be
wandering about alone at that time of night.  She was wearing a long,
sleeveless cloak and a grey, woollen cap, from beneath which part of her
hair had escaped and was blowing about her face in little wisps of
bronze-gold cloud.

“Let me in,” she whispered.  “Please—I have hurt myself and I am afraid
to go on.”

I stretched out my hands and, placing them beneath her arms, lifted her
over the low window-sill and into the room.

“How strong you are,” she murmured.

But even as she said that, the something that had kept her up gave way
and she lay a limp, dead weight in my clasp.  I carried her to the couch,
but as I placed her down and began to unfasten the long, grey cloak, I
noticed that the sleeve of her white blouse was stained with blood.  That
was evidently the hurt to which she had referred; and I began to wonder
whether I had not better summon my housekeeper.  It looked essentially a
case for feminine aid.  The girl, however, was already recovering.

“No, come here,” she said, as I began to move towards the door.

I returned to her side and gently lifted her arm.

“Yes, you have hurt yourself,” I remarked.  “See—your arm, isn’t
it?—there is blood—”

“Yes, it’s my arm,” she replied, lifting her cloak and showing a ragged
tear in the blouse on the under-side of the sleeve.  “It’s not very bad—I
think—but it seems to be bleeding a good deal, and I—I am afraid of
blood.”

“May I look at it?” I asked.  “I could perhaps bandage it, and—”

“Are you a doctor—how nice!” she cried.

“No,” I replied with a smile, “I am not a doctor.  But I am a first-aid
expert, enough of one, anyway, to say whether or not a doctor is
necessary.  Yes, I have treated much bigger injuries than this.  It is
only a scratch, I fancy, and the blood looks more than it really is.  A
very little blood makes a mess of things.  Lie still a minute.  I have
everything here within reach and we’ll soon put you right.”

I brought a pair of scissors and cut away the sleeve, finding the arm
beneath it—the left arm, by the way—rather badly gashed.

“To-morrow you must show that to a doctor,” I said when I had washed and
bandaged it.  “Now I will give you a glass of wine and—”

“Is there anyone but you in the house?” the girl asked abruptly, as if
some thought had suddenly occurred to her.

“There is my housekeeper,” I said, “and a maid.  Shall I rouse them
and—?”

“Mercy, no!” she exclaimed.  “Whatever would they say if they found me
here—at this time of night—?”

I nodded, quite comprehending the hint so conveyed.

“I have been visiting a friend,” she went on, observing me keenly through
her drooping eyelashes, perhaps to see how I took the story, “and I—I
lost my way.”

“Your friends should not have allowed you to attempt to find it by
yourself,” I returned.

“My friends are not plural,” she retorted with a little trill of
laughter.  “They—or rather she—she is a maiden lady—and I am not in the
least bit nervous.  I am a country girl by birth and upbringing, and the
darkness means nothing to me.  It is the fog that worries me.  I stayed
later than I should have done, and in my hurry to get back I lost my way.
Then I saw the light in your window and I came, meaning to ask where I
was.  I had to climb over a wall, and in doing that I cut my arm on some
glass.  I think it is very stupid to put glass on walls—”

“It shall be knocked off to-morrow,” I interrupted.

“Oh, it doesn’t matter,” the girl said demurely.  “I am not likely to
come this way again.  But do you know Cartordale?”

“Well, know is hardly the word.  I am afraid I don’t very well.  I have
only been here a short time,” I answered.  “I know very few people.  I
have never seen you before, for example.”

That was a leading question very thinly disguised, but she did not rise
to it.

“I am afraid,” I went on, “it would be but another instance of the blind
leading the blind if I attempted to guide you about the Dale.  I will do
my best if you will tell me where you live, unless, indeed, you would
prefer to stay here until morning.  The place is at your service and I
could very easily waken the—”

But my visitor’s negative gesture was very decided.

“What house is this?” she demanded.

“It is called Stone Hollow,” I told her.

“Oh, I know Stone Hollow,” she cried.  “It was Mrs.—Mrs.—a lady with a
curious name, but I have forgotten it.”

“Mrs. Mackaluce,” I volunteered.  “She was my aunt.”

“Yes, that was the name, I remember now.  I have been here before, but
never by the—the back window.  If you can put me on the roadway outside
Stone Hollow I shall know where I am.”

“I can take you home, at all events, if you can show me the way,” I said.

The girl looked at me for a moment or two doubtfully as if that were not
quite what she had intended.

“It is not right that you should be out alone at this time of the night,”
I added.

“Oh, right and wrong are merely terms,” she replied, rising to her feet.
“There is no law against being out at night.  It isn’t forbidden in the
Defence of the Realm Act, is it?  If I like to be out at night it is
right I should be.”

“I was thinking of the danger, not of the law,” I responded dryly.

“Why, whatever danger can there be?” the girl cried, opening wide her
pretty eyes.  “There are no highway robbers in Cartordale, nor any
Germans.”

But I did not argue with her.  I simply handed her the woollen cap which
had fallen off when she fainted, then helped her to fasten the cloak
around her, and finally led her into the hall, picking up my own hat and
coat as I went.  I was fully determined on seeing her to her own home,
wherever that might be and whatever her objections.  I opened the door
noiselessly and closed it again with the merest click of the lock.

“It is very dark,” I muttered, being a man of the town and used to
gas-lamps.

“Yes, it often is at midnight,” the girl replied demurely, but with a
little catch in her voice as if she were choking back a laugh.  “But I
can see very well.  Those who are country-born have eyes in their feet,
you know, and never miss the path.  Why, there are men of the Dale, and
women too, for that matter, who will walk across the moors at dark and
never miss the path for all it is no more than three feet wide.”

“But you have lost your way once already to-night,” I murmured.

“That doesn’t affect the question,” she retorted scornfully.  “It was
only because I was trying a short cut.  I left the path of my own accord.
If I had kept to the road I should have been home by now.  The longest
way round is the quickest way home.  Is that a proverb? It sounds like
one.  If it isn’t it should be.  It is true, anyway.  Besides, it is
foggy.  That makes a difference.  Give me your hand.”

Apparently she did see better than I, for the next minute I felt the grip
of her slender fingers as she seized mine and began to pull me forward.
We went swiftly and in silence, still hand in hand, for some minutes,
then her clasp loosened.

For a moment or two the shadow of her lingered beside me, then suddenly
disappeared into the fog.  We had reached a part of the Dale that was
flanked on one side by a wall of rock which deepened even the blackness
of the night and made the darkness, to me, at all events, absolutely
impenetrable.  There was no sign of light or house, nor indeed of any
building, and when I groped my way to the side of the road, I stumbled,
first into a ditch and then against a low rubble wall, beyond which was
only fog much thicker now than it had been earlier in the evening.

And it was there I lost her.  How she went, or in which direction, I had
no idea.  But I had no doubt that she had evaded me of design—and that
her home was nowhere thereabout.  That she knew the Dale intimately was
evident.  She had deliberately led me to its darkest spot simply that she
might there lose me.  I smiled grimly as I realised that.  She had fooled
me with incomparable skill and wit.  I paid a frank mental tribute to her
cleverness.  A young lady of brains, this, and one whose acquaintance was
well worth cultivating.

I stood waiting for some little time—possibly ten minutes or a quarter of
an hour—then lit a cigarette and walked slowly back to Stone Hollow,
pondering over the queer little adventure, wondering who the girl was and
whether—or rather when—I should see her again.  She was evidently an
inhabitant of the Dale—her familiarity with it at all events suggested
that—in which case she could hardly expect to evade me permanently.  I
must sooner or later meet and recognise her.  At any rate it was a
piquant little mystery, and I must confess that somehow Cartordale no
longer seemed quite so dull as it had been.

I had little idea then as to what the mystery, in which I had thus become
involved, really was or how quickly it would develop on tragic and very
unexpected lines.

I reached Stone Hollow again at 2.7 a.m.  The whole episode, from the
knock on the window to my return home had occupied two hours fourteen
minutes.




CHAPTER II
THE TRAGEDY AT WHITE TOWERS


WHEN I came down to Stone Hollow to take over my new inheritance, I found
the house completely furnished on extremely comfortable if rather
old-fashioned lines; and Martha Helter in possession.  She had been my
aunt’s housekeeper for over twenty years and had evidently every
intention of being mine also.  I was quite agreeable, since it saved me a
lot of trouble, nor have I so far seen any reason to regret that
decision.

Mrs. Helter—the title had apparently been accorded her by courtesy, since
she was still a spinster and everybody but myself used it; but I began
with Martha, her Christian name, and Martha it is to this day—is a most
capable manager and runs my household with a precision that reminds one
of well-oiled wheels, and a careful economy that has its recommendation
in these days of ridiculous prices.  She seemed to know and to be known
by almost everybody in the Dale, and was an all but exhaustless fountain
of anecdote and news.

I say “all but” because she could not give me immediately the information
I sought regarding my pretty midnight visitor.  Not that I attached very
much actual importance to that queer incident.  It had amused me, and
perhaps, though I would not confess it even to myself, I was just a
little piqued at being so cleverly outwitted by a mere girl.  I had cause
during the day to revise my estimate of the interest I was to take in my
uninvited guest.  But my first thought was to identify her.

“Martha,” I said to my housekeeper, “did you ever meet hereabouts a young
lady wearing a grey woollen cap and a long cloak without sleeves, a sort
of cape reaching to her boots?”

Martha Helter pondered the question for a minute or two, but shook her
head.

“I don’t think I have ever seen a cloak like that in Cartordale,” she
replied.

“I saw one yesterday,” I said, “and I wondered who the wearer was.  Never
mind, perhaps I shall see her—I mean it—again.  It was the pattern of the
cloak that took my fancy.”

I am not quite sure why I added that last phrase, though if Martha
noticed anything she kept a perfectly straight face.

“A grey woollen cap and a long cloak without sleeves?” said the little
maid who entered the room at that moment and to whom the housekeeper
propounded the question.  “Why, yes’m, that’s Miss Kitty Clevedon—lives
with her ladyship, you know.  There are two gentlemen to see the master,”
she added.

“Bring them in,” I said.  “Who are they? Do you know them?”

“One of them is Sergeant Gamley, of the County Police,” Susan replied,
“but the other is a stranger and did not give his name.”

“Bring them in,” I repeated.

Sergeant Gamley was in uniform, a tall, thin man with a long hatchet face
and an air of important solemnity which he never shed.  His companion was
rather more rotund in build, with puffy red cheeks above which peered
small, keen eyes that did not seem to linger long on anything, but which
for all that missed nothing.  Abraham Pepster was chief of the detective
force at Peakborough, the county town, and one may judge to some extent
his prevailing characteristic by the fact that his nickname among
disrespectful subordinates was “Gimlet-eyes.”  It was, however, Sergeant
Gamley who opened the conversation on this particular occasion.

“We have called, Mr. Holt,” he said, “with regard to the tragedy at White
Towers.  Sir Philip Clevedon—”

“A tragedy—of what nature?” I interrupted.  “I have heard nothing of it.
There is nothing in the papers about it, is there?  Or have I missed it?”

I interposed just then because I wanted to slow down the story a little.
The girl who had visited me last night was named Clevedon—Susan had just
told me so—and now there was a Sir Philip Clevedon and a tragedy.  I
could not help wondering, of course, what connection there could be
between the two, but I was determined to feel my way cautiously, resolved
not to be hustled or bounced into saying more than I wanted to say.  The
story, whatever it was, should come from them without any help from me.

“No, Mr. Holt, I dare say you haven’t heard anything yet—not many have,”
Sergeant Gamley went on.  “As you say, it isn’t in the papers.  You are a
stranger among us—yes, yes.  For the moment I had forgotten that.  I knew
your late respected aunt very well indeed, Mr. Holt. There was a little
matter of a burglary in this very house some four years ago.  Mr.
Holt”—he turned to his companion—“has been living here only a very short
time.  He succeeded the late Mrs. Mackaluce, whose nephew he was.”

“Hadn’t you better tell Mr. Holt what has happened at White Towers?” the
other man suddenly interrupted, speaking in a small, soft voice that was
rather curiously in contrast with his bulk, and without any trace of
impatience.  He had perhaps been as willing as myself that the
conversation should not be hurried.

“You can see White Towers from the upper windows of your own house, Mr.
Holt,” Sergeant Gamley continued.  “It lies between you and the village,
a large house with an outstanding turret and two smaller towers.”

“I have seen it,” I said, “but my housekeeper said it was White Abbey, if
that is the place you mean.”

“The good lady is a little mixed,” was Gamley’s reply.

He was proud of his local antiquarian knowledge and delighted to parade
it, being, indeed, a frequent contributor to the local papers and
regarded as an authority on county history in general and Cartordale in
particular.

“White Towers,” he went on, “stands on the site of the old White Abbey.
The older name survives, but the present house, of which Sir Philip
Clevedon is the owner—was the owner—”

If there is such a thing as an inward smile I indulged in one then.  The
method was so obvious and I had so often used it myself.  Pepster was
allowing the other man to go maundering on while he himself kept me under
careful observation.  I do not, however, allow my thoughts to be written
on my face, and I merely listened impassively.  Pepster seemed at last to
recognise that he was not likely to get much help as things were going,
for he brushed Gamley aside and took up the story himself.

“The fact is, Mr. Holt,” he said bluntly, “Sir Philip Clevedon was found
dead this morning—stabbed—”

He paused there and I waited, making no sign.

“With a lady’s hatpin,” he added, “a big, three-cornered affair with a
silver knob.”

I had a swift vision of a white, frightened face beneath a woollen cap,
but I could not quite connect the girl of the previous night’s visit with
any thought of crime.  She did not fit into a picture of that sort.  Yet
I knew as certainly as if she had told me that she was in some way mixed
up with it all.  And why had they come to me?  Did they know of that
midnight visit?  I was determined that they should tell me.  I would give
them no lead.  They must do all the talking.  Pepster, after a rather
lengthy pause, seemed to realise the position.

“Perhaps you wonder why we come to you,” he said in his small, soft
voice.  “It was merely on the chance that in your late stroll last
night—”

So they did know I had been out.  Had they also seen my companion?

“—Sergeant Gamley—you stood to light a cigarette and the match lit up
your face.”

Pepster paused there again with an obvious appearance of waiting.
Following the normal course, the person addressed should now break into
more or less voluble explanations of the why and wherefore of this
midnight stroll, explanations which the detective could weigh as they
came forth and so form some estimate of their value or otherwise to the
quest on which he was engaged.  There might be nothing in it.  Pepster
knew full well that he would interview and interrogate scores of persons
during the next few days and would have to sift a prodigious amount of
chaff on the off chance of an occasional grain of wheat.  In any case he
had to go on sifting.  That was his job.

“Seeing your name was mentioned in the way it was,” Pepster went on, “I
thought you might like to explain—”

“Yes?” I said inquiringly, “explain?”

“Your name was mentioned, you know,” Pepster murmured.

“So you have told me.  But what is it you wish me to explain?”

“You were out very late last night,” Pepster remarked.

“Let us be a trifle more explicit,” I said.  “It comes to this—if you
suspect me of having any hand in killing Sir Philip Clevedon with a
three-cornered hatpin, you have no right to question me.  It is against
your rules, isn’t it, for you to trip me up and entrap me?  If I am not
under suspicion I do not quite see whither your questions lead.  You may
produce the handcuffs or take me into your confidence.  But in any case,”
I added with a quick smile, “I reserve my defence.”

“You are a bit off the rails, Mr. Holt,” Pepster returned with unabated
calm.  “I know of nothing which should connect you with the murder,
nothing at all.  But your name was mentioned, and it is my duty to
question everybody who may be in the remotest degree linked up with the
affair in case by any chance they may afford me information.  Do you mind
telling me why you were out so late last night?”

“I was taking a stroll.”

“It was a very foggy, unpleasant night.”

“It was extremely so.”

“And consequently very dark.”

“That coincides with my own recollection.”

“A stroll in a thick fog!”

“My dear sir, you ask me a question.  I answer it in good faith, and you
disbelieve me.”

“No, no, not at all,” Pepster said blandly.  “I accept your word
implicitly.  It was not the object and inspiration of the—er—the stroll
that interested me.”

“No?  You were not wondering whether I was coming from or going to White
Towers?  I am glad of that,” I returned with apparently great
satisfaction.  “In point of fact the stroll was a mere whim on my part,
induced mainly, I may say, by the hope that it would assist me to a
night’s sound sleep.  I had been writing.  One reason why I maintain my
cabbage-like existence in a God-forgotten corner of the country like this
is that I may write a book.  But writing renders the brain a little
over-active and—”

I broke off there and waited for the other to continue.

“What I really wanted to know,” Pepster went on, “was whether you saw or
met anybody during your stroll.”

“I saw nobody and met nobody,” I responded equably.

“Somebody passed a few minutes previously,” Pepster continued.  “Gamley
here heard them talking, a man and a woman.  But he could not distinguish
them.  He thought no more of it at the time, of course.  Nothing was
known of the murder then.  He recognised you only because you struck a
match to light your cigarette.  But you were alone.”

He nodded to Sergeant Gamley and picked up his hat.

“Would it be impertinent,” I asked, “to inquire whether you have any
clue, any idea, any theory—”

“Oh, I never theorise,” Pepster replied with bland serenity.  “It is only
story-book detectives who theorise.  Theories are too much of a luxury
for professionals.  Facts are my stock-in-trade.  I do not travel outside
those.”

“You have the hatpin,” I suggested.

“Yes,” he replied vaguely, “we have the hatpin.”

But he had evidently no intention of talking about that.

When they had gone I set myself down to concentrate my thoughts—on the
girl’s woollen cap.  I have so trained my faculty of observation—just as
a conjurer trains his fingers or a dancer her feet—that I see everything
even to the smallest detail, though often without making any conscious
record of it at the time.  When the girl fainted in my arms her woollen
cap had fallen off.  Consequently there had been no hatpin, though, as I
visualised it, I remembered that on the rim of grey cloth which bound the
knitted shape, there were marks showing that a hatpin had been in use.
Was it with her hatpin that Sir Philip Clevedon had been done to death?

There you—this to the reader—have the case set forth, and you are in
exactly the same position that I was myself—a stranger to the place and
the people, knowing practically nobody and with every item of information
yet to seek.  But we both of us have one small advantage over the police.
The latter, as far as I could make out, knew nothing of Miss Kitty
Clevedon’s midnight adventure.




CHAPTER III
A MEETING IN THE DARK


I HAD not long to wait before making further acquaintance with my pretty
midnight visitor.  Our second meeting took place within a few hours of
the police call and on the same day.  I had been out for a long walk
across the hills and was tramping steadily along the high road towards
Stone Hollow, when I saw, gleaming through the darkness—it was already
dark though only late afternoon—at probably the loneliest and most
desolate spot in the Dale, the headlights of a motor-car evidently at a
standstill.

“It’s a weird place for a halt and worse if it’s a breakdown,” I
murmured, and involuntarily quickened my steps.

But as I approached the car I saw a moving light and then the shadow of a
woman walking towards me, carrying, apparently, a small electric torch.
Evidently she had heard my approach and had set out to meet me.  As she
stepped momentarily into the light of the car I recognised her.  It was
the girl of the midnight visit.

“Who is it, Kitty?” demanded a quick, imperious voice somewhere in the
darkness.  “Tell him to come here.  Do you know him?”

“Lady Clevedon is in the car,” the girl said a little hurriedly.  “Will
you come and speak to her?”

“Is it a breakdown?” I queried.

“No,” the girl responded, “it is Hartrey.  We have lost him.”

But I had no immediate opportunity of questioning her as to the missing
Hartrey, or the manner of his going, for “Kitty,” as the old lady had
addressed her, had run to the door of the car and pulled it open, to
reveal old Lady Clevedon, white of hair, very erect of figure, rather
stern of face and with keen, searching eyes that just now were full of
wrath.

“Is there anything I can do?” I began.

“You can find Hartrey,” her ladyship responded, not exactly snappily, but
quite ungently; she was evidently used to giving orders, and it never
occurred to her, apparently, that I would do any other than obey.

“Who is Hartrey?” I demanded.

“He is the chauffeur,” the girl explained. “We sent him with a message to
Lepley’s farm—it is over there.”

She pointed vaguely into the darkness, and I followed her gesture with my
eyes.  But I could see no sign of house or light or living creature—only
the darkness and, in the fore-ground, the blurred outlines of masses of
rock.

“It should not have taken him ten minutes,” the girl went on, “but he has
been gone for more than half an hour.”

“How far is the farm-house?” I asked.  “It is rather queer we cannot see
any lights.”

“Oh, I think there are some barns or something of the sort between the
road and the house,” Miss Kitty Clevedon told me.  “And, besides, it lies
in a hollow and the rocks may hide it.  I have seen the place before, but
only in daylight, and I forget just how it stands.”

“If you will allow me I will go as far as the house and inquire,” I said,
producing my own electric lamp.  “Possibly your man has tripped over a
stone—”

“Tripped over a stone!” her ladyship cried scornfully.  “He’s more likely
philandering with the Lepley girl.  Do you know her?”

I replied in the negative, adding that, indeed I had never heard of her.

“Well, you’re the only man in the Dale that doesn’t know her,” the old
lady retorted.  “Oh, no, there’s nothing wrong with the girl, but the men
are crazy over her, and Hartrey with the rest, I suppose.”

I could not help being a little entertained by the idea that I might be a
competitor with the chauffeur for the favours of the fair Lepley.  But I
did not put the thought into words.  I hadn’t an opportunity, indeed, for
the old lady threw off her rugs and made evident preparations to alight.

“If you would wait here, I could go alone,” I ventured, thinking the
search would be hampered rather than helped by the old lady’s presence.
But she did not even answer me.  She stepped from the car with an agility
which showed that her body was still younger than her years, and herself
led the way towards a gap in the tumble-down, rubble wall where once
apparently had been a gate.  The car, I noticed, was standing well aside
on the rough turf that flanked the roadway, and, in any case, there was
little enough traffic in those parts at that time of the year.  We might
leave it there in safety.  And accordingly the three of us made our way
along the very rough and uneven road that led to Lepley’s farm.

“No,” said the farmer’s wife, who answered my rap at the door, “Mr.
Hartrey has not been here to-night.”

She called to somebody who was evidently in a kitchen at the rear of the
house.

“Perhaps he tripped ovver a stoan and hurt hisself,” the farmer’s wife
went on, “though if it’s that it seems queer you saw nowt of him as you
came along.  Besides, I don’t know what he would be doing tripping ovver
a boulder, anyway.  I reckon he knows the road blindfolded, and there are
no boulders to hurt if you keep to the path.”

I could have argued that point with her, for I had nearly twisted my
ankle on one group of boulders and had badly barked my shins on another.
But it was hardly worth while debating it, since apparently Hartrey had
not tripped over a boulder or we should have tripped over him.  At this
moment, too, a girl emerged from the kitchen, carrying a lamp held high
so that she might see who the visitors were.  Her sharper eyes discovered
the two ladies, and she made a step towards them.

“Her ladyship!” she cried, “and Miss Kitty!  Come right in.  What is the
trouble?”

That was my first introduction to Nora Lepley, a young woman of whom I
was to know a good deal more before I finished with her.  She was tall
and finely built, with plentiful hair so dark as to be almost black, and
eyes that in some lights seemed to be of a rich purple and in others of a
sombre, rather heavy blue.  They were wonderful eyes and one had no need
to wonder that the men of the Dale should be, to use Lady Clevedon’s
words, “crazy over her.”  She had then more admirers than she could count
on the fingers of both her slim, capably hands, and is still unmarried.
I think I know why, though I have hardly any right to say so.

She spoke with an educated intonation, in curious contrast with her
mother, who used the ordinary dialect of the Dale.  Beautiful, clever,
educated, entirely self-possessed, she was certainly something of a
novelty to discover in a Cartordale farm-house.

“I thought you were at White Towers with your aunt,” Lady Clevedon said.

“I have just run home to get some clothes,” the girl replied.  “I am
going back to-night to stay with Aunty.  She is terribly upset.  But what
is the trouble here?”

“The trouble is,” Lady Clevedon retorted grimly, “that I have a fool for
a chauffeur.  I sent him here with a message, but he hasn’t been nor did
he come back to us.  He went off into the darkness and apparently stopped
there, leaving me and the car on the roadway for anybody to run into.”

“Well, he hasn’t been here,” the girl said, with a decision that was
evidently characteristic of her.  “Wait until I get a lantern and we’ll
look for him.”

Lady Clevedon followed Mrs. Lepley and her daughter into the house, and
for a minute or two Miss Kitty Clevedon and I were left together in the
porch.  She could have followed the others into the house, but for some
reason preferred to wait outside.  Possibly she wanted to see what I
would do.  She did not look at me—I noticed that—but stood near the door,
not quite with her back to me, but so that if it had been light I could
not have seen her face.  She did not speak to me, but I had of course no
intention that she should get off as easily as that.

“I hope your arm is better,” I said, speaking softly, so that no sound of
my voice might reach those inside.

“I beg your pardon,” the girl returned icily.

“I was expressing the hope that your arm was better,” I explained.

“But there is nothing the matter with my arm—thank you.”

The girl’s voice was perfectly cool and without the slightest sign of
flurry or perturbation.

“I may congratulate you on a wonderfully quick recovery, then,” I
responded.

“I do not understand you—what was supposed to be the matter with my arm?”

“I was told—it was rumoured—that you had cut it—climbing a wall—a wall
with glass on top.”

“I do not climb walls.”

“I don’t suppose you make a hobby of it, but every one does queer things
now and again.”

“Such as addressing impertinent observations to a lady one meets for the
first time,” she rapped out.

There was a rather lengthy pause, and then I made one more attempt to
break down her defences.

“I was very sorry to hear of the—the tragedy at White Towers,” I said
softly.  “It was a queer coincidence—”

But if I thought to disconcert her by that remark I had miscalculated.
She made no reply, but simply walked a few steps away and left me
standing.  Her acting was perfect.  I could not forbear a smile, though
at the same time I admired both her courage and her cleverness.  Anyone
less alert would have admitted our meeting and tried in some way to
secure my silence.  She did nothing of the sort, but ignored the whole
matter, putting up a big bluff in the assurance that since there had been
no witnesses to the little midnight incident I should hesitate to tell
the story lest I should not be believed.  Of course I knew very well that
if I had really been guilty of the impertinence of which she had accused
me she would not have received it quite in that way.  However, I had no
opportunity for further efforts because just at that moment the Lepley
girl reappeared with a shawl over her head and a big lantern in her hand,
her mother and Lady Clevedon following her.

We went slowly along in a sort of zigzag, going for six or eight yards to
the left of the roadway and then recrossing it and covering a similar
space on the opposite side.  It was a lengthy process and it was wasted
time, because, as we neared the car, we saw Hartrey standing by it,
looking from left to right into the darkness, evidently with rather
dismal forebodings.

“He’s there!” Miss Kitty Clevedon cried in accents of relief, but the
tone in which her ladyship echoed the phrase was quite otherwise.  The
latter approached the car and demanded to know what Hartrey meant by
leaving her alone there on the high road and why he had not gone to the
farm to deliver her message.

“I lost my way, my lady, in the darkness,” the man replied.  “I found
myself at the bend of the road higher up—”

“Now, Hartrey,” her ladyship said severely, “when I engaged you I gave
you extra wages on condition that you should be teetotal.”

“My lady, I have not touched anything of the sort for nearly seven
years.”

“And you—what is your name?” the old lady demanded, turning suddenly on
me.

“My name is Dennis Holt and I live at Stone Hollow,” I replied, amused
and not at all offended at the old lady’s brusqueness.

“Oh, yes, I know, nephew to Mrs. Mackaluce.  I remember hearing about you
from Dr. Crawford.  Well, thanks for your help.  Now, Kitty, come along.
Good bye, Mr. Holt.”

“Can you find your way back all right?” I said, turning to Nora Lepley,
who had stood silent during the conversation and whom the old lady had
not thanked.

“But I live here,” she replied, with a quick laugh, “and I don’t always
come home by daylight.  Good night, Mr. Holt.”

Old Lady Clevedon had amused me hugely.  She was evidently what the
country people would call “a character” whose acquaintance might be worth
cultivating.  But it was the pretty niece who attracted all my attention,
and I made up my mind that I must become interested in the tragedy at
White Towers.  There might be no connection between that and Miss Kitty
Clevedon’s midnight wanderings.  The latter might be susceptible of the
most innocent explanation.  But it was in that case a queer coincidence,
and though I am far from denying that coincidences play a large and
weighty part in human affairs, I instinctively distrust them.  This might
be one, but until I could prove the affirmative I preferred to admit a
possible negative, or at all events to keep an open mind.




CHAPTER IV
THE SILVER-HEADED HATPIN


THE Midlington evening papers reached Cartordale about seven o’clock.  To
accomplish that they had to be printed somewhere about 3.30 p.m., and
accordingly were rather early editions.  Nevertheless, the one I saw
contained a very good account of the Clevedon tragedy, though, as I could
well see, reading between the lines, one which the police had carefully
supervised.  The press and the police work in very much closer accord
than most people realise.  They help one another, and the wise newspaper
man never gives away anything the police desire to keep secret.  In
return for that the press receives all sorts of information otherwise
inaccessible to it.  I have many thousands of newspaper cuttings, all
carefully indexed, of which I make good use in the compilation of my
books.  Newspapers give the facts that are known with creditable
accuracy, though really what remains unknown is frequently the more
important.  The whole story is not always told.

And the press may and often does materially assist the police.  If the
latter wish to publish some item broadcast, the description of some
individual, particulars of a missing weapon, details that may bring
further items and possibly produce an unsuspected clue, they go to the
press, which very quickly and efficiently gives them all the publicity
they want.  They do not deliberately keep things from the press.  Any
such attempt defeats its own end.  It is the reporter’s job to get news
and he is an expert at it.

But if you tell the press all you know with a reservation as to what may
not be published, the secret is safe enough.  In a very long and varied
experience I never knew a newspaper man to break a promise or violate a
confidence.  Some journals, of course, make a speciality of crime
investigation on their own account, and clever enough they are at it.
But even they will suppress an item of news if the police ask it, and
frequently when they discover some fact unknown to the police will
inquire before publishing whether it is desirable or safe.  The ordinary
man’s idea that the press thinks first and only of its news column is a
delusion.  Very often a newspaper knows a lot more than it says.

From the account in the Midlington evening paper I learnt that Sir Philip
Clevedon had dined alone soon after seven o’clock.  At the conclusion of
dinner he retired to his study according to his usual custom.  At a
quarter past eight he received a visit from Miss Kitty Clevedon, who had
motored over from Hapforth House, the residence of Lady Clevedon, with a
message to Mrs. Halfleet, the housekeeper.  Miss Clevedon left before
nine o’clock, and at 11.30 Sir Philip rang for his man Tulmin and ordered
a whisky-and-soda, giving also some instructions regarding a contemplated
journey to London on the morrow.  Tulmin went off to bed, and thereafter
was a long blank from 11.30 or so until between six and seven o’clock in
the morning, when Miss Nora Lepley found Sir Philip lying dead on the
couch in his study with the hatpin driven through his heart.  Those were
the facts out of which the reporter had made several columns.  But the
summary is sufficient for my purpose.

There was, of course, a description of the hatpin, which was eight inches
long, with a flat, circular head of silver about the size of a shilling
and a three-sided or three-cornered blade of steel that tapered off to a
very fine point—an unusual hatpin that more resembled a silver-headed
skewer or stiletto.  It had been driven into the body so that the head
was close up to the white shirt-front—as far as it would go, in fact—but
any bleeding had apparently been internal, since there was none
discernible either on the exterior of the body or on the clothing.

I made a careful note of the times.  Tulmin had last seen his master
alive at about 11.30.  It was 11.53 when the girl tapped at my window.
When I had read the newspaper story I sent for Martha Helter, my
housekeeper.

“Who is Lady Clevedon?” I asked her, “and what relation is Miss Kitty
Clevedon to Sir Philip?”

“It is a little bit complicated, you see,” she said, seating herself on
the extreme edge of a big arm-chair.  “Lady Clevedon is the widow of the
late baronet who died some years ago—before the war, anyway.  She was
Miss Ursula Hapforth before her marriage, and when her husband died she
went back to Hapforth House, which had been left her by her father, whose
only child she was.  The Hapforths are older than the Clevedons in these
parts.”

“But perhaps not so wealthy?”

“Oh, I don’t know for that.  They have plenty of money.”

“And this Sir Philip—was he her son?”

But I recollected that her attitude had been anything but that of a
bereaved mother when I saw her a short time before.

“No, she never had any children,” Martha told me.

“Oh, then—but go on, Martha.”

I had been about to remark that Miss Kitty was not, therefore, Lady
Clevedon’s daughter, but had thought better of it.  I should get more out
of Martha, I reflected, by allowing her to tell her story in her own way.

“This Sir Philip was a cousin of the other baronet,” my housekeeper went
on, “and next to him comes Mr. Billy Clevedon, who is Miss Kitty’s
brother.  He is in the army.  They say that he and Sir Philip quarrelled,
and there are all sorts of rumours about.  Miss Kitty lives with Lady
Clevedon.  I believe she has some money of her own, though I don’t know
how much.  Her father was a rector down in Cornwall, but he’s been dead a
long time now.”

“And this Sir Philip—where did he come from?”

“From somewhere abroad, I think.  He was not very young, perhaps
forty-five, and he wasn’t married.  We didn’t see a lot of him in
Cartordale—he lived mostly in London.  He was not friends, they say, with
Lady Clevedon, though I should not think they had really quarrelled.  He
was a stiff, solemn sort of man, and not very popular.”

In point of fact the Clevedon title was one of the oldest surviving
baronetcies, though there had been Clevedons in the Dale long before
James I invented baronets as a new means of raising revenue.  The
Clevedons had all been politicians of varying degrees of importance,
frequently unimportant.  A minor Minister or two, a Colonial governor or
so, a small Embassy, all urbane, honest, honourable, but occasionally
unintelligent personages, belonging to what one might describe as the
great Official class, which has ruled England since the days of the
Tudors, doing most things badly but generally with clean hands.

But the late Sir Philip Clevedon was something of a mystery.  No one had
heard of him until the death of his cousin had given him the title.  He
had never been in Cartordale before that, and way entirely unknown even
to his relatives.  They had no idea even where he lived.  Rumour was
almost equally divided between America and Australia, but without any
real foundation, since he himself vouchsafed no information on the point.
Among the people of the Dale, as Martha indeed had told me, he had not
been popular.  He was too chilly and unemotional in his manner and, being
frequently absent for lengthy periods, took no real part in the life of
the Dale and, apparently, little interest in its concerns.  To many of
the inhabitants he was not even known by sight.

All this is a summary not only of what Martha told me, but of what I
subsequently gathered.

When I had finished with Martha I went out and met Detective Pepster
strolling in casual fashion through the village.  I should have missed
him in the darkness but that we stepped at the same time into the light
cast across the roadway by the “Waggon and Horses,” Tim Dallott’s
roadside inn, famed far and wide among visitors to the Dale.

“You haven’t been to arrest me yet,” I said, as Pepster returned my
salute.

“No,” he replied, with a placid grin, “we are giving you a little more
rope.”

“You have taken a load off my mind,” I returned cheerfully.  “But are you
quite sure?  Sudden temptation, you know, and—and so on.”

“Ah, you are pulling my leg, Mr. Holt,” Pepster replied affably.

“But you did suspect me,” I urged, wondering how far the detective might
be amenable to pumping.

Some of them are, but not those who know their job.

“Well, suspect—that’s rather a big word,” Pepster said thoughtfully.
“You see, the law says a man is innocent until he is proved guilty, but a
detective who knows his business proceeds the other way about.  Everybody
is guilty in his eyes until the facts prove their innocence.  There is
only one man I am absolutely sure did not commit this murder, and that is
myself, but nobody save me has any call to be sure even of that.  Now
you, for example—could you prove an alibi for that night if I took it
into my head to charge you?”

“We will suppose I could not—for the sake of argument.”

“Just so, but then, you see, something else is required.  Society is
based on a notion that ordinary, normal men act in an ordinary, normal
manner and don’t go about murdering each other for the mere fun of the
thing.  It is like people walking along a city pavement while motor-cars
are dashing to and fro in the roadway.  The three or four inches by which
the pavement is raised are no protection at all should a motor-car take a
sudden swerve, but pedestrians go ambling quietly on in the knowledge
that the normal thing is for motor-cars to keep their own place, and that
when they go wrong it is because something has happened.  Yes, Society is
based on the prevalence of the normal.  When you hear, for instance, that
one man has killed another, you take it for granted there was a
reason—what we call a motive.  And the motive is vital.  Sometimes the
why of a murder reveals the who, and sometimes the who explains the why.
But the two must go together.”

“Your philosophy is both interesting and accurate,” I said.  “And what of
the hatpin?”

“Ah, the hatpin,” Pepster replied thoughtfully.  “But that may have been
an accident and not the woman in the case.”

“The woman?” I said inquiringly, my thought going instantly to my
midnight visitor.  “Yes, of course, a hatpin does suggest a woman,
doesn’t it?”

“There may be a woman in it,” Pepster went on, gently garrulous, “but I
don’t know that the hatpin brings her in.  Some woman owns the hatpin, no
doubt, but that isn’t to say that she used it.  Though it does help
things wonderfully to get a woman into a case, even though it may
complicate it.  No doubt there would be a man in it too.  There generally
is.  Women seldom play a lone hand.  But they have always been a fruitful
source of crime in men ever since Adam had to declare that the woman
tempted him and he did eat.  I have always thought ill of Adam for
that—for telling, I mean.  It’s not the sort of thing a real man would
have blurted out.  But for all that it was true—it was true then and it
has been true ever since.  Women—”

“And as you say,” I interrupted gently, “it would be a woman’s hatpin.”

“Oh, yes, it would be a woman’s hatpin.  Sir Philip Clevedon didn’t wear
them—not that I ever heard.  And we have identified it, you know.  It
belongs to Lady Clevedon and, as far as I can make out, Miss Kitty
Clevedon borrowed it when she went to see the housekeeper earlier that
evening.  It will be in all the papers to-morrow.  There seemed no
particular reason to keep it secret.”

“According to the newspapers, Miss Clevedon went to see the housekeeper,
Mrs. Halfleet,” I observed.  “Did she take her hat off?  Where did she
leave the pin?”

“Those questions have been asked and answered,” Pepster replied.  “She
was caught in a shower of rain on her way to White Towers and took off
her hat to dry it.  She does not recollect where she laid the pin down,
but it must have been somewhere in the housekeeper’s room.  She did not
see Sir Philip Clevedon and did not enter the study where later the body
was found.”

“The housekeeper—?”

“Knows nothing of the hatpin—does not remember Miss Clevedon laying it
down, and in fact never saw it until she was brought to her dead master.
It was Lady Clevedon herself who identified the hatpin and told me all
about it.”

“So that instead of one woman you have three,” I murmured.

“Yes, three women but not _the_ woman.  Hullo! there’s Dr. Crawford, and
I want to speak to him.”

He nodded a quick farewell and went off with long strides after the
doctor.  Considering his bulk and his apparently leisurely methods of
thought and speech, Pepster was curiously quick and active in his
movements.

                                * * * * *

“Do you know Mrs. Halfleet?” I asked my own housekeeper when I again
reached home.

“Oh, yes, quite well,” she replied.  “I have known her for years.  A
little stand-offish in her manner, but quite pleasant face to face.”

“About how old would she be?” I queried.

“Oh, well, let me see.  I am—yes, she must be quite sixty, perhaps a year
or two older.”

“Not a young woman, anyway.”

“Oh, dear no, not a young woman.  She is the widow of a minister, a
Methodist, I think, who was at a church in Midlington when he died.  That
must be a good sixteen years ago.  Lady Clevedon, who was living at White
Towers then, her husband being alive, brought her in as housekeeper, and
the present—I mean the late—Sir Philip kept her on.  She is sister to
Mrs. Lepley, but far more of a lady—”

I switched the conversation on to other lines, leaving Mrs. Halfleet for
later investigation.

The case, you will note, has advanced another stage.  The weapon has been
identified.  The queer hatpin, with the three-cornered blade and the
silver knob, was the property of Lady Clevedon, who lived at Hapforth
House.  Miss Kitty Clevedon borrowed it and so conveyed it to White
Towers where, apparently, she left it.  That was all very interesting and
quite simple, but probably irrelevant.  The question was not who had
owned the hatpin or who had worn it, but who had used it.

The question of time becomes interesting here.  Tulmin, the valet, had
seen his master alive at 11.30, and the girl had visited me at 11.53.
She certainly had committed no murder at White Towers in that interval.
It was a physical impossibility.  I had carefully assured myself
regarding that.  It would have required at the very minimum another
fifteen or twenty minutes.  But I had lost her in the darkness somewhere
before 2 a.m.  As I have already said, it was seven minutes past two when
I reached Stone Hollow again on that night (or rather early morning), and
allowing for the time I stood after she had evaded me, and for the walk
homewards, I judged that it would be about 1.15 when she disappeared into
the darkness.  What had her movements been after that?

It must not be supposed that I suspected the girl of having had any hand
in the tragedy, though I by no means ruled her out.  Her beauty and youth
did not weigh with me at all.  I had found both in even greater measure
in proven criminals.  Besides which, a murder is not invariably a crime.

But I had two ascertained facts—that Kitty Clevedon had worn the hatpin
to White Towers, and that she had been abroad in the Dale during the
early hours of that tragic morning.




CHAPTER V
KITTY CLEVEDON AND RONALD THOYNE


I MET Sergeant Gamley, the officer who had called on me in company with
Detective Pepster, and I asked him whether the public would be admitted
freely to the inquest.

“Well,” he said slowly, “I suppose they have the right, but the
accommodation is very limited, very.  When the witnesses and the lawyers
and the family and the police and the reporters and people who must be
there are squeezed in there’ll not be a lot of room for outsiders.  Did
you want—ah, now, I am looking for another juryman.  Stokkins has fallen
ill.  How would you like—?”

“Excellent!” I interrupted.  “As long as you don’t make me foreman it
will suit me very well.  I should like to hear the story in full—being a
neighbour, you know.”

I did not add that it would also afford me an opportunity of seeing the
body without making any obvious attempt in that connection.

It was an ordinary country jury, consisting mostly of farmers, with a
small shopkeeper or two, and Tim Dallott, landlord of the “Waggon and
Horses,” as foreman.  We visited the chamber where the body lay, but it
did not add anything to my knowledge except that I was able to form some
idea what the man had looked like in life, which did at least add to the
interest of the mystery.

An inquest is a singularly useless form of inquiry at its best.  It is
doubly and trebly so when the police use it, as frequently they do, for
purposes of their own, to conceal the truth rather than reveal it.  The
real duty of the jury is to determine the cause of death, for, though it
may declare that So-and-so was a murderer, the actual demands of the law
are satisfied if the jury simply decides that a murder has been
committed.  A coroner who knows his business does not travel far outside
the brief allotted him by the police, and generally manages—though not
invariably—to keep his jury within the limits assigned himself.

I have had a long and very varied experience of inquests and was not,
therefore, surprised that the inquiry regarding Sir Philip Clevedon’s
death should be merely formally opened and then immediately adjourned,
for the purpose, it was stated, of a post-mortem examination.  I regarded
that as a mere subterfuge—in which, as it happened, I was wrong—and
easily realised that the police did not want as yet to tell all they
knew, which in its turn suggested that they had some sort of a line on
the murderer and did not desire to give him (or her) any information.

Meanwhile I busied myself making some very careful inquiries regarding
Miss Kitty Clevedon.  Through her midnight visit to me, I was in
possession of some information so far not within the knowledge of the
police, unless, indeed, she had herself told them, which I doubted; and I
intended, for a bit at all events, to keep it to myself.  Exactly what
connection she had with the tragedy I could not say, but I meant that she
should tell me—in which determination I reckoned without Kitty Clevedon.
I met her as she was walking from Cartordale to Hapforth House.  She was
warmly clad in furs and, a little flushed by the wind that was blowing
smartly across the moors, was looking very pretty and attractive.  She
saw me approaching her and, curiously enough, made no attempt to avoid
me.  In point of fact, I expected a direct “cut,” but she stopped as I
drew near and even held out her hand.

“Fancy meeting you, Mr. Holt!” she cried.

“I have just been to Hapforth House,” I replied, wondering what might be
the explanation of her unexpected cordiality, though I fancy that what
she really had in mind was to show that at least she did not fear me.
“I—well, in fact,” I went on, “I wanted a word or two with you.”

“With me!”

“May I turn and walk back part of the way with you?” I asked.

“Why, of course,” she replied.  “I always prefer company if I can get it,
and it’s none too plentiful here.  I am used to lonely walks, though one
can have too many of them.  A woman likes to talk, you know, but one
cannot converse with stone walls.”

She rattled on, rather intent apparently on doing most of the talking, as
if she did not wish to give me an opportunity.  But I merely bided my
time, knowing the chance would come; and presently she seemed to realise
that, because she interrupted her flow of chatter and turned as if
waiting for me to speak.

“You wanted—was it about something particular?” she asked.

The words were all right, but the mocking smile in her eyes, and the set
of her pretty lips, rather belied them.  She was preparing to meet her
adversary with a woman’s weapons.

“It is about the night of the—of the murder,” I began slowly.

“Yes?” she said.

“And of your visit to my house.”

She put up her hand and with a pretty gesture pushed back an unruly curl,
meeting my gaze firmly and frankly and without any sign of disquiet.

“But—my visit to your house, Mr. Holt.  I do not quite understand.  Am I
supposed to have visited your house on the night of the—?”

“You intend to deny it?” I asked.  “Well, if you consider that worth
while I suppose I could not prove it.  After all, it would be merely my
word against yours.  But isn’t such a subterfuge between us two just a
little—shall I say—grotesque?”

“Suppose you tell me all about it,” she said quite tranquilly.  “Perhaps
I have lost my memory.  Such things do happen, don’t they?  But then
there is generally a railway accident, isn’t there, or a motor smash.
And I haven’t even knocked my head.  Do tell me all about it, Mr. Holt.”

I could not help admiring the skill with which she kept me at
arm’s-length.  It was grotesque, of course, as I had said, but it was
wonderfully clever.  Whatever her object, she certainly lacked none of
the gifts and qualities of an accomplished actress.

“Doesn’t your attitude suggest,” I said, “that you have—er—something to
conceal?”

“Does it?” she asked, opening her eyes wide.  “I wonder what it can be?
Oh, yes, the night of the—the tragedy.  Are you suggesting by any chance
that I murdered Sir Philip—is that what you mean, Mr. Holt?  Speak out if
it is—please do not hesitate.”

“I did not say that.”

“But then what have I to do with it all?” she demanded, stamping her foot
as if she were really angry.  “You must tell me what you mean, Mr. Holt.
You have said too much not to say more.  What is it you suspect?  You
hint at this and hint at that, but say nothing straight out.  It is a
cowardly way to attack a woman.”

Her voice broke artistically, and she seemed to be on the verge of tears.
It was all very cleverly done, and I confess I admired her, though that
did not turn me from my purpose.  I have had to deal with women in all
sorts of moods and every possible disguise, though Kitty Clevedon at that
moment was less a woman than a clue in skirts and furs.

“The matter is quite simple,” I said, deliberately brutal, in the hope of
startling her out of her calm.  “I was only wondering what view the
police, for example, would take of your midnight adventure.”

“You had better go and tell them,” she flamed out.  “They might believe
you, you know.”

“You were in my house on that night,” I said, and waited to see if she,
would deny the visit even to me.

“So you said before,” she retorted.

“Do you, then, wish to deny that you were in my house on that night?”

“Would you believe me if I did deny it?”

“Of course not—how could I?”

“Then why should I trouble to deny it?  You ask me a question and answer
it for me, and tell me you will not believe me unless I adopt your
answer.  That is a convenient method of cross-examining—put the question
and invent the answer.”

“And yet you will not deny it—why not deny it and have done with it?”

“Mr. Holt,” she said slowly, “I do not know what you mean.”

That was definite enough, and we walked along for some minutes in
silence, the while I considered whether I should press her further just
then or carry my inquiries in another direction.  I was, however,
relieved of the responsibility of immediate decision, for at that moment
a man turned the bend of the road and, seeing us there, came towards us
and greeted Kitty with the familiarity of an old acquaintance.  She on
her part welcomed him joyfully, though whether that was from pleasure at
seeing him or because he provided a way of escape from further
questioning, I did not attempt to decide.

The new-comer was tall and rather heavily built and gave an impression of
immense physical strength.  His manner was bluff and frank and his eyes
kindly and intelligent, but the lines of his mouth were hard, as of a man
who had had to fight his way and would be little likely to give quarter
to an opponent.  He looked like one who wanted much anything he did want,
and would leave nothing undone that might secure it.  “Honest in a way,
but a tough customer,” was my own private summary, and I wondered who the
man was.

“I was just going to Hapforth House,” he said, smiling, as he addressed
Kitty Clevedon, though the stare he bestowed on me was none too friendly.

I noticed that Kitty made no move to introduce us.

“Oh, yes, Auntie told me she was expecting you—some business matter,
isn’t it?” she said.  “I warn you there may be a warm half-hour before
you.  Good-bye, Mr. Holt.  It was very kind of you to come this far with
me.  Mr. Thoyne is going my way.”

I accepted my dismissal smilingly and made a careful note in my mind of
the man’s name.  Anyone with whom Miss Kitty Clevedon was acquainted
became a person of interest worth knowing.  On my way to Stone Hollow I
met Dr. Crawford, a Scot, rough of tongue and occasionally almost brutal
in manner; but he was implicitly trusted by the Dale folk, who regarded
suavity and gentleness with suspicion, and politeness as a form of
hypocrisy.  He had come to them from a country even wilder and sterner
than their own, and was thus able to fit in with their moods and to
understand their temperament, which, to strangers, seemed to be
compounded of a mixture of sullenness and stupidity.  He was one of the
very few people in the Dale with whom I had struck up any sort of
intimacy, possibly because he had been my late aunt’s medical attendant
and a witness to the will that had given me Stone Hollow.

“Do you happen to know a man named Thoyne?” I asked after a few
preliminary remarks.

“Yes; don’t you know him?”

“Am I supposed to?  Is he one of those persons whom not to know is proof
of one’s own insignificance?”

“Oh, I would not say that, though it is a little curious that you should
have been some weeks in Cartordale without hearing about Ronald Thoyne.”

“Well, apparently I have heard about him,” I replied, “or I shouldn’t be
asking you questions regarding him.”

“I am not exactly one of his intimates,” Dr. Crawford said.  “He is an
American who fought in the war with the French Army before the Yanks came
in.  He was wounded or gassed, or possibly it was shell-shock.  At all
events he came to England and was for some time in hospital, but he seems
perfectly fit again now.  He settled here at Lennsdale, which stands away
up there on the hill-side.  You can just see the house through that
opening.  He is certainly wealthy and gives generously, which is perhaps
one reason why he is popular round here.  He is bluff and hearty, but
rather too ready with his fists to fit our modern notions of law and
order.  A good man to avoid a quarrel with, I should imagine.  He is very
strong on the war and indignant with his own country for holding off as
long as she did.  That is about as near a character-sketch as I can give
you.”

“Good.  I must make his acquaintance.  Is he very friendly with Miss
Kitty Clevedon?”

“Well, there have been rumours—matrimonial—but nothing definite.  If they
are formally engaged I haven’t heard of it.”

The doctor turned into a small cottage standing by the roadway, and I
walked on alone to Stone Hollow.




CHAPTER VI
A NEW SENSATION


IT was in Dr. Crawford’s surgery the day before the resumed inquest that
I met Lady Clevedon again.  A little to my surprise she recognised me,
though, as far as I knew, she had only seen me in the dark, and greeted
me by name.

“I wanted to know you, Mr. Holt,” the old lady said.  “You were a popular
theme of conversation when your aunt’s will became known, and everybody
wondered what this London nephew might be like.”

“May I suppose that he, even though distantly, approaches expectation?” I
said.

“Oh, I don’t know that we really harboured expectations,” Lady Clevedon
retorted bluntly.  “I had seen your photograph, so that your features do
not come upon me with any overwhelming sense of novelty.  Mrs. Mackaluce
showed me the portrait.”

“Yes, I know she had one,” I said.  “I found it in the house.  But I
don’t know how she got it.”

“I think she said her lawyer procured it for her.  ‘I quarrelled with his
father and mother,’ she told me, ‘and I’m not going to make it up with
him.  But he is the only relative I have in the world, and he has only
me, and I shall make him my heir.’  Are you really as lonely as all that,
Mr. Holt?”

“Lonely?” I echoed, perhaps a little vaguely.  “Oh, you mean the only
relative—no, it’s not quite so blank as that.  True, my relatives do not
worry me much, but there are some about somewhere.”

“Are you going to settle in Cartordale?” she demanded.  “It’s slow enough
as a rule, though there is excitement just now, more than enough.  Sir
Philip Clevedon stabbed and with my hatpin—it was my hatpin, you know—”

She closed her lips together with what was almost a snap, as if she
feared to say too much.  But she was not constructed for long silences.

“That man Peppermint, Peppercorn—”

“Pepster,” Dr. Crawford murmured.

“Ah, yes, Pepster—thinks I did the murder.  Where did I last see my
hatpin?  Did I leave it at White Towers?  ‘My good man,’ I said, ‘I
haven’t been in White Towers for three years.’  Wasn’t I friendly with
Sir Philip?  Had I quarrelled with him? when did I last see him?  Of
course I had quarrelled with him.  Philip Clevedon was always quarrelling
with somebody.  He was—but there, he’s dead now.”

She paused again and began to draw on her glove.

“The late baronet wasn’t exactly popular—?” I began.

“Popular!” the old lady cried explosively.  “Popular!”

She left it there and, indeed, she had no need to go into further detail.
Her inflection on the word was sufficient.

“But, anyway, I didn’t kill him,” she went on.  “There is a lot of
difference between a desire to box a man’s ears and stabbing him with a
hatpin.  If I stabbed everybody I quarrelled with I should have some busy
days.”

“It was your hatpin,” I murmured, possibly in the hope that I might
irritate her into talking, a plan which, if indeed I had really formed
it, Dr. Crawford frustrated.

“Well, anyway, you did not kill Sir Philip Clevedon,” he said roughly.

“You are a true friend,” the old lady cried, with grim and satirical
humour.  “Thank God! somebody believes me innocent.  If I come to the
gallows—”

“I know you did not kill him,” the doctor repeated half sullenly, but
with so much emphasis that I could not help wondering what was behind it.

“How can you know?” Lady Clevedon cried.  “Perhaps I did.  I have felt
like it many a time, anyway.  And it was my hatpin—as Mr. Holt reminded
me.  Pepperpot suspects me at all events.  But here comes Kitty.”

The old lady drew Dr. Crawford aside and began to discuss with him some
matters connected, I fancy, with village doings.  Kitty Clevedon and I
were left by ourselves in the huge bay window that looked out over the
rough, uncultivated garden.  The girl made no effort to avoid my company
but greeted me with a cool tranquillity that was, however, of that
careful variety which suggested some anxiety to show that she was not
afraid of me.  For my part I merely returned a conventional reply and
stood looking out into the garden, leaving it to her to open a
conversation or not just as she thought proper.  I took it that, being a
woman, she would, and I was not far out.

“Your gaze on that garden seems very intent, Mr. Holt,” she said, with a
bewildering smile.  “Are you looking for something?”

“Well, perhaps,” I responded, with a smile.  “You see, I am always on the
look-out—for your double.”

“My double!  Have I a double?  How delightful!” she cried.

“Yes,” I said gravely, turning once more to the garden; “a double—someone
so exactly like you that it is very difficult to distinguish you.  I
should like to find her—that other one.  But I have had no luck, none at
all.”

“Are you so very anxious to find her?” Kitty asked, bringing that smile
once more to bear as she saw that my eyes were turned again in her
direction.

“At this moment, none at all,” I responded lightly.  “I find my present
company fully adequate.”

“Is it that I make an efficient substitute?  How very sweet of you to say
so,” Kitty murmured, with a quick glance downward as if at the slender
toe of an exceptionally pretty shoe.

“No, I do not remember saying that,” I replied.  “You see, you are you
and she is she—”

“‘And never the twain shall meet’—isn’t that Kipling?” Kitty demanded.

“I think it may be quite safely asserted,” I said, with grim meaning,
“that you will never meet your double.”

She flushed a little at the thrust but maintained otherwise her smiling
calm.

“But when did you meet her, Mr. Holt—did you ever tell me?” she asked,
with a delightful assumption of candour and innocence.

There was never a cleverer actress on or off the stage than Kitty
Clevedon.

“Oh, she flitted into my life through my study window—and then flitted
out again—into the darkness—”

“Leaving you desolate—how very unkind of her!”

She broke off with a quick trill of pretty laughter that was not at all
affected and in which I joined her.

“It sounded a trifle sentimental, didn’t it?” I said, and then added with
tranquil insolence, looking her this time full in the face, “but isn’t
there a proverb about better to have seen and lost than never to have—oh,
and that reminds me.  I asked Dr. Crawford where I should find another
young lady like Miss Clevedon and he replied, ‘Impossible—there isn’t
one.  God broke the mould when He made her.’  But there is another one, I
know, because I have seen her, and—”

“I should want a very solemn affidavit indeed to make me believe that Dr.
Crawford ever said anything so pretty as that,” she interrupted.

I had expected to make her angry but she seemed only amused.

“Oh, you don’t know the doctor,” I said airily.  “He is capable of much.
But he was wrong in this case—the double exists.”

“I shall ask him if he said it.”

“I wouldn’t.”

“Why?”

“Oh, well, you know, he might ask some awkward questions in his turn.
You see, I have never told anyone yet about your—double.  I don’t think I
should care to entrust him with the secret.”

“But why let it trouble you, Mr. Holt—why not forget it—and her?”

“Oh, I am not allowing it to trouble me.”

“You seem to be always talking about it.”

“I have never mentioned it to a soul except yourself.”

“I should think—” Kitty began, then turned away to meet Lady Clevedon,
whose conference with Dr. Crawford had just terminated.

The old lady stood glaring at me for a moment or two.

“I dare say you think that we—Kitty and I—take this—this tragedy very
calmly, Mr. Holt,” she said.

“I don’t know that I thought about it at all,” I responded.

“Women sometimes wear a mask, Mr. Holt.”

“Yes?”

“It may be for a purpose or it may be by habit.”

“Yes.”

I glanced quickly at Kitty and found her surveying the old lady with
sombre eyes from which all the laughter had fled.  She at all events had
been wearing a mask.

When the two ladies had gone Dr. Crawford and I sat down to a whisky and
soda apiece and a cigar.  He seemed ill at ease, restless and rather
unhappy until I casually reintroduced the subject of the Clevedon
mystery, then he seemed in some curious way to brighten up.

“Aye, murder cases,” he said reflectively.  “A murder case can be very
interesting, you know—morbid but fascinating.”

I agreed without at all grasping his meaning.

“You are a student of criminology and you have written books on the
subject,” Crawford went on.  “Did you ever run up against a case of
poisoning with prussic acid?”

“Several times,” I replied.  “It is a frequent and formidable poison
because it is so swift and unerring in its effect.  The victim is dead
before help can possibly reach him.”

“That is true,” Crawford agreed.  “Death may be a matter of seconds, of
minutes at most.  But, now, tell me, have you met cases in which a man,
having taken a dose of prussic acid, lies calmly down and is found as
tranquil and orderly in posture as if he had died in his sleep?”

“Oh, yes,” I said.  “Indeed, I should say the majority of cases were like
that.  Prussic acid is said to produce convulsion, frothing at the mouth,
and so forth.  Those do take place, and may in every instance, though
there are cases in which no evidence of them remains.”

“Just so,” Crawford agreed, nodding his head.  “But, now suppose it were
a case of suicide by prussic acid, would you expect to find the bottle
near at hand?”

“In nine cases out of ten—yes,” I responded.

“And in the tenth?” he asked eagerly.

“There might have been some other way of administering the poison—wasn’t
there a case of prussic acid in chocolates—?”

“Would it be possible for a man who had taken prussic acid to conceal the
bottle?”

“Possible, yes, but—”

“And if no bottle were found you would regard it as a case of murder?”

“If the murderer had any sense he would leave the bottle near at hand to
give the appearance of suicide.”

“But murderers—sometimes forget—these little—”

“They do, fortunately for the law.  Nine murderers out of ten are hanged
by their own mistakes.  But what is your sudden interest in poison cases?
Have you one in—?”

“I have—Sir Philip Clevedon—”

“Sir Philip Clevedon!” I echoed, for once surprised into showing my
astonishment.

“Aye,” Dr. Crawford said slowly.  “He died from prussic acid poisoning
and the hatpin was thrust through his heart—after he was dead.”




CHAPTER VII
EVIDENCE AT THE INQUEST


I TOOK my place at the jury table for the resumed inquest with
considerably quickened anticipations.  Dr. Crawford’s story had
introduced new factors into the case which promised added interest and a
still more involved mystery, though with a possibility of suicide and, it
might be, a vivid and fascinating life story.  Not that I indulged in any
speculations.  I wanted only facts and those I expected the inquest to
afford.  I was not disappointed.  Of course, the doctor’s evidence
startled everybody.

“And what was the cause of death?” the coroner asked, when Dr. Crawford
had concluded his preliminary evidence.

“The deceased died from poisoning by hydrocyanic acid,” was the reply.

This was news to most of those present, including the reporters, who
began to write feverishly, those representing the evening papers, anyway.
Here was a new fact, one even they, so far, had not been allowed to know.

“That is what is known as prussic acid, isn’t it?”

“Yes.”

“The hatpin you have already described to us was not the cause of death?”

“The deceased was dead when it was inserted.”

“Would it have caused death had there been no poison?”

“Possibly, but not certainly.  Death at all events would hardly have been
so rapid.  With that wound the deceased might have lingered for some
time, for days even.”

“He might eventually have recovered?”

“Yes.”

The coroner paused for a moment or two, then glanced at Pepster, who
shook his head slightly.  For some reason or other the police were not
eager to pursue that particular line of questioning.

Dr. Crawford’s further evidence and that of the police surgeon from
Peakborough, who followed him, was largely devoted to what one might
describe as the technique of prussic acid poisoning, unnecessary to
detail here.  There was, however, one little fragment of evidence worth
repeating.

“On a small table by the side of the couch on which the deceased was
lying was a bottle half full of whisky, a siphon of soda-water and a
glass.  I took charge of them and later Dr. Crimley and myself analysed
the contents.”

“With what results?”

“None.”

“You found no trace of prussic acid?”

“None.”

“Was there any liquid in the glass?”

“Yes, about half an inch.”

“What was it?”

“Water.”

“No whisky?”

“No”

“And no prussic acid?”

“Not a trace.”

I glanced at the reporters again and saw that they were writing their
hardest.  The trained newspaper man is never at fault when it comes to
selecting evidence.  He seems to know by instinct what is crucial.  The
longest report of any case does not represent more than a twentieth part
of the evidence actually given, but the points are all there always.  And
the reporters knew quite well that the absence of poison from the bottle
and siphon might make all the difference between suicide and murder.  Had
the whisky been poisoned Sir Philip Clevedon might have put it there
himself.  There was, of course, the fact that the apparent absence of any
medium through which the poison could have been administered added to the
puzzle, and the press dearly loves a mystery—at least its readers do, and
newspapers that live by their readers wisely enough live for them also.

The next witness was John Tulmin, a little, thin man, not more than about
five feet three in height and correspondingly meagre in build, who had
been the late baronet’s personal servant, possessed, apparently, of
sufficient education occasionally to do secretarial work for him.  At all
events he opened Sir Philip’s letters and typed the replies dictated by
his employer.  But he also acted as valet and was apparently as clever
with clothes brush and razor as he was with the typewriter.  He gave his
evidence clearly and without hesitation, and seemed quite unaware of any
reason why he should be an object of considerable interest to Police,
Press and Public.

“At what time did you last see Sir Philip Clevedon alive?” the coroner
asked him.

“At thirty-three minutes past eleven.”

“You are very precise.”

“I am precise because I am stating the fact.”

“What enables you to fix the time?”

“As I was leaving the room Sir Philip asked me for the time and set his
watch.”

“Was that usual with him?”

“Oh, no, but he had complained during the day that his watch seemed to be
losing.”

“Good!  He asked you the time and you told him—”?

“Eleven thirty-three.”

“Was that from your own watch?”

“Yes”

“And your watch was right?”

“Yes.”

“You are quite sure of that?”

“Absolutely.”

“And what happened then?”

“He said, ‘That will be all, Tulmin, good night.’  I replied, ‘Good
night, Sir Philip,’ and had reached the door when he called me back.
‘And, by the way, Tulmin,’ he said, ‘waken me at eight o’clock.  I want
to catch the 10.15 to London.  Order me the car at 9.30 will you.’  I
said, ‘Very good, Sir Philip,’ and then I left the room, closing the door
behind me.”

“He told you to call him at eight o’clock?”

“Yes.”

“And to have the car round at 9.30?”

“Yes”

“Because he was catching the 10.15 to London?”

“Yes”

“That is a very important matter, gentlemen,” the coroner said, turning
to the jury.  “It has some bearing on the possibility of suicide.”

I glanced at Pepster, whose face was wrinkled in a quiet grin.  Really,
such orders had no bearing at all on the question of suicide—they were
just such as a man might give who had determined to take his own life but
desired to conceal the truth.  A person bent on suicide—though “temporary
insanity” is usually the verdict of kindly juries—can manifest very
considerable skill, and frequently does, in covering up the real mode of
his exit from this life.  Scores of cases of “accident”—according to the
verdict—in my experience have been suicide disguised.  Men and women who
have been killed on the railway, or run over by motor-cars, or drowned
while bathing, or shot while cleaning a gun, or swallowed poison from
bottles labelled something else, have carefully arranged those
happenings, chiefly for the benefit of insurance companies.  Suicide is
much more frequent than is generally supposed, and it is far more often
the result of careful calculation and arrangement than of insanity,
temporary or otherwise.

“Did Sir Philip give you any order when he rang for you?” the coroner
went on, continuing his examination of Tulmin.

“Yes, he told me to bring him a whisky and soda.”

“You did that?”

“I brought him a bottle of whisky, a siphon of soda-water and a glass,
and I placed them on a small table which I drew up to the side of the
couch on which Sir Philip was reclining.”

“How much whisky was there in the bottle?”

“It was about half full.”

“Where was this bottle kept?”

“It was on the sideboard in the dining-room.  Sir Philip always had
whisky and soda for dinner.”

“Was the bottle you took him at night the same bottle out of which Sir
Philip had had whisky at dinner?”

“Yes.”

“You are sure of that?”

“Yes—quite.  I poured it out myself at dinner.”

“You see the point of my question?”

“I am not sure—”

“No; but we will return to that later.  As far as you know, the bottle
you took Sir Philip was the one from which you had given him whisky at
dinner?”

“I am quite sure it was the same.”

I confess I did not quite see the bearing of that question, but I
gathered from Pepster’s attitude that he, at all events, attached some
importance to it, and I was content to wait.

“Did Sir Philip drink only one brand of whisky?”

“Yes, sir, always the same; Lambert’s Blue Label.”

“How many bottles have you of that?”

“I am not quite certain, but about eight dozen, I think.”

“Now let us come to the following morning.  How did you hear of the—the
tragedy?”

“Miss Lepley awakened me, and I went straight to the study.”

“You saw the small table by the side of the couch?”

“Yes.”

“Was the whisky bottle there?”

“Yes.”

“And the siphon and the glass?”

“Yes.”

“Just as you had put them the night before?”

“Yes.”

“Now here is the bottle of whisky that was found on the table by Sir
Philip’s side”—Pepster produced it from a bag he had been hitherto
carefully guarding—“is that the bottle from which you gave your employer
a drink at dinner and which you left with him at night?”

“Yes, sir.”

“How do you identify it?”

“It’s Lambert’s Blue Label, sir.”

“But that is a popular brand, isn’t it?”

“Oh, yes, I believe it is, sir.”

“You could buy a bottle in Midlington, for example?”

“Yes, sir, at several places.”

“Are there any special marks on this particular bottle?”

“No, sir, I don’t think so.”

“Then how do you identify it?”

“It is Lambert’s Blue Label, and—”

“Just so, and we may leave it there.  As far as you know, that bottle is
the one from which you gave Sir Philip his drink at dinner, and which you
took him at night, but there are no marks on it which enable you to
identify it positively.”

“Well, of course, one bottle of Lambert’s Blue Label is very like
another.”

“Precisely.  Did you notice the glass?”

“Not particularly.”

“Could you say whether it was the glass you took Sir Philip?”

“It was the same sort of glass.”

“Quite an ordinary glass?”

“Oh, yes.”

“There are many glasses of that type in the house?”

“Yes, sir, several dozen, I should think.  The housekeeper or the butler
would know.”

“Just so.  There was nothing special about the glass, any more than about
the bottle?”

“Nothing, sir.”

That was the end of this very curious cross-examination, the exact
bearing of which did not occur to me immediately.

The next witness was Miss Nora Lepley, niece to Mrs. Halfleet, the
housekeeper.  The name seemed familiar to me, and for a moment or two I
puzzled over it.  But when I saw the girl, I remembered.  Indeed, she was
not of the type that is easily forgotten.  It was the girl of the
farm-house at which we had called in search of Lady Clevedon’s missing
chauffeur.  It seemed that she was staying with her aunt, Mrs. Halfleet,
for a few days, and she it was that made the first discovery of the
tragedy.

“It was you who found Sir Philip’s—er—who first saw—?”

“Yes, sir, I found Sir Philip lying dead on his couch in the study.”

“At what time would that be?”

“About seven o’clock.”

“And how came you to be the first to enter the study?”

“Nobody was allowed to tidy Sir Philip’s study except my aunt, and she
had to be there when the maids were cleaning.  But when I was staying
with her at White Towers, I sometimes looked after it for her.  Sir
Philip knew, and didn’t object.”

“Were you friendly with Sir Philip?”

“Oh, no, not particularly.  I seldom saw him, and when I did he generally
didn’t speak to me.  He wasn’t very—very—”

“Is genial the word?”

“Yes, that would fit.”

The girl smiled, but quickly composed her features again.

“Now let us come to this particular morning.  Tell me exactly what
happened.”

“My aunt wakened me and said would I straighten Sir Philip’s study for
her, as he would be down early.  I think she said he was going to
London.”

“What time would it be when she wakened you?”

“I should think about a quarter to seven.  I can’t say to the minute,
because I did not look at my watch.”

“And what happened then?”

“I dressed, and went downstairs to the study.  As I opened the door I saw
that the light was still burning, and that Sir Philip was lying on the
couch.  I thought he had fallen asleep there overnight.  I went to him
and put my hand on his shoulder, intending to waken him, and then I saw—”

She paused there, and her face whitened a little at the recollection.

“You saw that he was dead?”

“Yes.”

“Had you tried to awaken him?”

“Yes, I had shaken his arm.”

“And then?”

“I ran out of the room and fetched my aunt who sent me for Mr. Chinley—”

“That is the butler?”

“Yes, and then I went for Mr. Tulmin.”

“Was he awake?”

“Oh, yes.  Indeed, he was half dressed.”

“Did he open the door directly you knocked?”

“Yes, I—I think so.”

“But you would not be sure of that?”

“No, I may have knocked twice.”

“Did Tulmin go with you immediately to the study?”

“Yes, and then he ran off for the doctor.”

“And what did you do?”

“I remained with my aunt and Mr. Chinley in the study until the doctor
came.”

“And now I want you to consider very carefully this next question; when
you saw that Sir Philip was dead, did you examine him at all?”

“No, I did not wait for that.  I ran straight out to bring help.”

“Did you notice the hatpin?”

“No, I saw nothing of it.”

“Does that mean that it wasn’t there, or that you did not notice it?”

“It may have been there.  Indeed, I suppose it must have been, but I did
not see it.”

“You formed no idea as to how he had died?”

“I formed no ideas of any sort.  I think I was too frightened and upset.”

“Thank you, Miss Lepley,” the coroner said.  “You have given your
evidence very clearly.”

“I am sorry I could not remember about the hatpin,” she replied.

“Oh, well, I have no doubt we shall trace it in time.  And now we will
have Mrs. Halfleet, the housekeeper.”




CHAPTER VIII
THE STORY OF A QUARREL


THE inquest, as far as it had gone, afforded no leading at all.  We had
not even learned how the poison had been administered, for though there
had been some suggestion of possible juggling with the whisky bottle and
glass, there had been nothing definite.  But it was the hatpin that
puzzled me most.  One might regard it as certain, at all events, that Sir
Philip Clevedon, even if he had voluntarily taken the poison, had not
thereafter stabbed himself.  One could only suppose that it was the
murderer’s effort to make absolutely sure that his work was complete.
Without the hatpin it might have been odds in favour of suicide.

Mrs. Halfleet, the housekeeper, was a tall woman, something past
middle-age, with black hair lightly streaked with grey, and dark eyes of
a peculiarly penetrating quality.  I wondered for a moment if or where I
had seen her before, and then I realised that it was her likeness to her
niece that had impressed me.  She was very alert, both mentally and
physically, answered the questions in full and without hesitation, and
yet with a curious air of detachment as if, after all, it were no
particular business of hers.  She described events already dealt with
here, and generally corroborated the evidence that had gone before.

“I want to ask you now about this hatpin,” the coroner said, picking up
the pretty but sinister little weapon.  “You were the first to discover
the—the use to which it had been put.”

“Yes, I saw it and called Mr. Chinley’s attention to it.”

“Had you seen it before?”

“Not that I can recollect.”

“You had a visitor during the evening?”

“Yes, Miss Clevedon.”

“Did she remove her hat?”

“Yes, she had been caught in the rain, and her hat was very wet.  I
advised her to take it off and dry it before my fire.”

“Did she do that?”

“Yes.”

“When Miss Clevedon took off her hat, did you see her remove the pin?”

“I cannot remember.”

“Did you see where she put it down?”

“No.”

“You did not see her put it on the table, for instance, or the
mantelpiece?”

“No.”

“You did not notice it lying about after she had gone?”

“No.”

“Did Miss Clevedon see Sir Philip?”

“She went to his study.”

“Do you know whether she saw him?”

“No, she went straight out after that, and did not return to my room.”

“Did Miss Clevedon resume her hat before she went to the study?”

“No, she was carrying it in her hand.”

“You are sure of that?”

“Yes, I remember her remarking that it was still damp, and that she would
put it on when she got outside.”

“You do not recollect whether she had the hatpin in her hand?”

“No, I do not remember that.”

“Did Sir Philip Clevedon have any other visitors?”

“One, earlier in the evening.”

“Before or after dinner?”

“Before dinner—about six o’clock.”

“Were you present at their interview?”

“No, I was in the little room that leads off the study.”

“What is that room used for?”

“Only to store books.  It is completely lined with shelves that are full
of books.  I was engaged dusting them.”

“You heard someone enter the study?”

“Yes”

“Could you overhear the conversation?”

“Not while they spoke in ordinary tones; only when they raised their
voices.”

“Did you recognise the visitor?”

“Yes, it was Mr. Thoyne.”

I glanced at Thoyne, who had started from his seat as if with intention
to intervene, then resumed it again as one who had thought better of it.

“Were they—was it a friendly interview?”

“Well—they disagreed—”

“I protest, Mr. Coroner,” Thoyne cried explosively, rising to his feet.

“If you desire to give evidence later—” the coroner began suavely.

“I have no desire to give evidence—I have none to give,” Thoyne cried.
“This interview which was purely private, took place hours before the—the
tragedy, and had nothing to do with it.”

“Please be silent, Mr. Thoyne,” the coroner said a little sharply, “and
allow me to conduct the inquiry in my own way.  You shall, if you desire,
have an opportunity later.”

He turned again to Mrs. Halfleet.

“You said that Sir Philip and Mr. Thoyne disagreed—did you learn the
cause of the—?”

This brought Thoyne once again to his feet and I did not wonder at it.
The coroner had evidently his own particular method of conducting an
inquiry.

“Once again I protest, Mr. Coroner,” he said, his face flushed darkly
with anger.  “This was a purely private conversation and had nothing to
do with—”

The coroner took absolutely no notice of him this time but simply
repeated his question to Mrs. Halfleet though in a slightly different
form.

“Did you gather over what it was that Mr. Thoyne and Sir Philip
Clevedon—quarrelled?”

“There was no quarrel,” Thoyne interjected.

“It was over—a lady,” Mrs. Halfleet responded slowly.

I began now to see something of the drift of this apparently irregular
questioning.  There was more behind it all than appeared to the casual
observer.  I glanced almost furtively at Miss Kitty Clevedon but found
her perfectly calm and tranquil though her face was dead white.

“Was the lady’s name mentioned?”

“No.”

Curiously enough, the coroner did not appear to be disappointed by that
reply and it also had the effect of quietening Ronald Thoyne.  His lips
moved in a quick smile and he settled himself back in his chair with an
air of obvious satisfaction.  What they might say about himself
apparently did not worry him.

“Could you hear what they said when they raised their voices?”

“I heard Sir Philip say, ‘You are talking nonsense.  I cannot compel her
to marry me against her will.  The decision rests with her.’  He was not
exactly shouting but was speaking a little more loudly than usual.  Mr.
Thoyne seemed angry.  ‘You must release her from her promise,’ he said.
His voice was hoarse and he struck the table with his stick as he spoke.
I think Sir Philip stood up from his seat then.  I did not see him, of
course, but I seemed to hear him walking up and down.  And he spoke
sharply, almost angrily.  The words appeared to come with a sort of snap.
‘I have nothing to say in this matter,’ Sir Philip declared.  ‘I neither
hold her to her promise nor release her from it.  The decision rests
solely with her.  If she notifies me that she cannot marry me I have no
power to compel her.  But I am not prepared to take your word for it.
The decision must come from herself.’  Mr. Thoyne said ‘That is your last
word, is it?’ to which Sir Philip replied, ‘My first word and my last.
As far as I am concerned I am engaged and remain engaged until the young
lady herself notifies me that the engagement is at an end.’  Then Mr.
Thoyne said, ‘If you don’t release her I shall find a way of making you—I
shall find a way.’”

“Upon which,” Thoyne rapped out sarcastically, “I poisoned him with
prussic acid.  It certainly was an effective form of compulsion.”

“Silence!” cried a police officer.

“Silence!” Thoyne echoed irascibly.  “It is a time for silence, isn’t it,
when I am virtually accused of murdering Sir Philip Clevedon?  This lady
has a marvellous memory, hasn’t she?”

“You will have an opportunity of giving evidence and of denying—” the
coroner began.

“I am denying nothing,” Thoyne interrupted half sullenly.  “The story is
all right as far as it goes.  Sir Philip Clevedon probably stood nearer a
thrashing than ever in his life before.  But I didn’t poison him nor did
I stab him with a hatpin.”

I happened just then to glance casually at Pepster, who was seated a
little behind the coroner and who was watching Thoyne with a keen, intent
gaze as if anxious not to miss the smallest trifle of word or gesture.  I
began to read some method into this curiously unconventional inquest
episode.

“And what happened then?” the coroner asked, turning to Mrs. Halfleet.

“Mr. Thoyne went out of the room banging the door behind him.”

“Quite true, Mr. Coroner,” Thoyne cried.  “I went home—to get the prussic
acid.  I had forgotten to take it with me.”

The coroner took no notice but turned to Mrs. Halfleet.

“Had you heard anything previously of Sir Philip’s engagement?”

“No.”

“Had not heard his name coupled with that of any lady?”

“Never a whisper.”

Mrs. Halfleet was asked a number of further questions, chiefly regarding
household arrangements and with special regard to glasses and bottles.
But she added nothing to the information already set forth.  And it all
appeared very tame after the Thoyne sensation.  As she left the witness’s
chair, Ronald Thoyne sprang to his feet.

“Do you intend to call me, Mr. Coroner?” he demanded.

“No,” replied the coroner, “I have nothing to ask you.  Do you desire to
tender any evidence?”

“No, I know nothing about it.”

“Then,” said the coroner suavely, “we’ll have Lady Clevedon.”

The old lady took her seat in the chair and sat bending a little forward,
her hands on her knees.

“Is this your hatpin, Lady Clevedon?”

“Yes.”

“Do you identify it as your property?”

“I have already told you it is mine.”

“Do you know how it got to White Towers?”

“If you mean did I go and stab—?”

“I did not mean that, Lady Clevedon.  I asked you a very simple question.
Do you know how that hatpin got to White Towers?”

“I do not.”

“Did you lend it to anyone?”

“No.”

“But you are sure it is your property?”

“For the third time—yes.”

“Is there any special mark on it?”

“I do not know of any.”

“There might be other pins like it?”

“There isn’t another like it in the world.”

“You knew the late Sir Philip Clevedon well?”

“Oh, yes.”

“And you were good friends with him?”

“Nobody was good friends for long with Philip Clevedon.  He was—”

She pulled herself up, pursing her lips.

“You were going to say?”

“Something one ought not to say of a man who is dead.”

“Had he any enemies?”

“Plenty, but not of the murdering sort.”

“Had you heard of his engagement?”

“He did not confide in me!”

“You had not heard of it?”

“I had not.”

Again I happened to glance at Pepster and saw him gazing as intently at
Lady Clevedon as he had done at Thoyne.  For the most part he had sat
listening to the evidence with partly closed eyes, as if it were very
little concern of his.  Only with Ronald Thoyne and now with Lady
Clevedon had he seemed at all keenly interested.  Evidently there was
more in Sir Philip’s mysterious engagement—known apparently to Thoyne,
but not to Sir Philip’s own relatives—than had appeared.  The coroner
glanced sideways at Pepster, who nodded his head slightly as if answering
an unspoken question in the affirmative, upon which the coroner thanked
Lady Clevedon for her evidence and dismissed her.




CHAPTER IX
WHAT KITTY CLEVEDON SAID


THE next witness was Miss Kitty Clevedon herself and I confess I awaited
her coming with more than ordinary interest.  Of one thing I was certain,
that she would say exactly what she wanted to say and not a word more,
and that no intrusive scruples would confine her too urgently to the
truth, unless, indeed, the fact that she was on oath might have any
influence with her, which I doubted.  I have always found that a woman’s
conscience is in that respect far more elastic than a man’s.  She took
her seat in the witness’s chair and glanced round her with thoughtful
calm, nor was her tranquillity in the least abated when she saw me
watching her.  There was certainly not the faintest suggestion in her
manner that my presence disturbed her in the slightest, or, indeed that
she had ever so much as seen me before.  The coroner took up the hatpin.

“Have you ever seen this before?”

“Many times.  It belongs to Lady Clevedon.”

“Have you ever borrowed it?”

“Often.”

“Did you wear it when you visited Mrs. Halfleet on the day—er—the day of
Sir Philip Clevedon’s—er—decease?”

“Yes.”

“Will you kindly detail the circumstances of your visit to White Towers?”

“Lady Clevedon asked me to convey a message to Mrs. Halfleet regarding
some parish business, the clothing club at the church of which Lady
Clevedon is president and Mrs. Halfleet is secretary.  On my way I was
caught in the rain and my hat was soaked through. Mrs. Halfleet advised
me to dry it at the fire in her room and I did so.”

“You say you were caught in the rain—did you walk to White Towers?”

“No, I went in my own motor, a little two-seater which I drive myself.”

“There was no one with you in the car?”

“No one.”

“You used this hatpin to secure your hat?”

“Yes.”

“And of course took it out when you removed—?”

“Of course.”

“What happened to the hatpin when you resumed your hat?”

“I do not recollect.”

“Could you wear that hat without a pin?”

“Oh, yes, I frequently did.  Sometimes I use a hatpin and sometimes not.
That particular hat fits very close and I pull it well down.”

“Now I want you to be very careful in answering the next few questions as
they are exceptionally important.  You are sure you had the hatpin when
you visited Mrs. Halfleet?”

“No, I am not sure.”

“You said—”

“Yes, but that was because I don’t see how else it could get here.  The
use of a hatpin is more or less mechanical, you know, and sometimes I
wear one and sometimes I don’t.  I think I brought it here but I cannot
remember either putting it in my hat or taking it out.”

“You would not swear then that you had it?”

“No, nor that I hadn’t.  I cannot remember.”

“It is hopeless, then, to ask you where you laid it down?”

“Quite, I am afraid.  If I had it with me I should take it out without
thinking and lay it down anywhere.”

“Where were you standing when you took your hat off?”

“Before the fire.”

“You might possibly lay the hatpin on the mantelpiece?”

“I should think that a very likely place.”

“But you cannot recollect?”

“No, I cannot remember anything about it.”

“How long did you remain with Mrs. Halfleet?”

“Oh, about half an hour, I should say.”

“Where was the cap during that time?”

“It was in the fender drying.”

“Was it dry when you took it up?”

“Drier than it was, but still damp.”

“When you put it on again, can you remember whether you used the hatpin?”

“No, I cannot remember for certain, but apparently I did not.”

“Can you suggest any reason why you should want a hatpin when you left
Hapforth House, but did without one when you were going from White
Towers?”

“No, I cannot explain it.”

“When did you again remove the hat?”

“When I reached home.”

“Didn’t the absence of the hatpin strike you then?”

“No, I didn’t think of it.  I could not even say for certain that it was
absent.”

The coroner sat for a moment or two drawing figures on his
blotting-paper, then turned suddenly towards her.

“Did you go out again that night?”

As Miss Kitty Clevedon looked casually round, our glances met and for a
brief second her eyes held mine, hardly in questioning, certainly not in
fear, but with some subtle suggestion I could not then interpret.

“No,” she said with inimitable composure, “I did not go out again.”

That might have been perfectly true since it was at least possible that
she had not gone straight from White Towers to Hapforth House.  Though it
was hardly possible she could have been absent all the evening without
some remark.  If, on the other hand, she was lying, and I had good reason
for knowing that she possessed all the qualities essential to success in
that very difficult art, then her midnight expedition had been secret.
It was a tangle that would have to be straightened out later, and so far,
I hadn’t either end of the string in my fingers.

“Did you see Sir Philip Clevedon?”

“No, I went to his study, but he was not there and I did not wait.”

That is all the evidence it is necessary for me to detail here, nor need
I reproduce the address of the coroner, who carefully examined in his
summing-up the possibilities of suicide, and rather discounted them.

The jury retired into the study—the room in which Sir Philip’s dead body
had been found—to consider their verdict.  It was not quite such a simple
matter as one might suppose.  My fellow jurymen were deeply impressed
with the heavy responsibility thrust upon them, quite unnecessarily so,
since a coroner’s verdict does not matter a snap of the finger one way or
the other.

“Now, gents all,” said Tim Dallott, our foreman, “the question is—suicide
or murder?  Why should he want to commit suicide?  And if he did, where
did he hide the bottle?  You, Mester Hapton”—this to a big, heavy man
with a vast head, a considerable farmer in the Dale—“what do you say?”

“Well,” said Mr. Hapton slowly, “there’s no knowing.”

“But you’ve got to know one way or the other,” Tim Dallott cried.
“You’ll have an opinion.”

“No, I don’t know as I have,” was the deliberate reply.

“Then we’ll say murder, eh?”

“No, I’m not so sure—”

“Well, suicide?”

“Ah, but then, you see—”

“Well, if it wasn’t suicide, it was murder, and if it wasn’t murder it
was suicide—”

“Aye, that’s right,” Mr. Hapton cried, brightening up a little.

Fortunately, I was the next to be interrogated, and I snapped out my
answer even before our foreman had completed his question.  “Murder,
undoubtedly,” I said, not because I had really any such certainty, or had
made up my mind on the matter, but in order to get the thing settled.  My
very unrural promptitude gave the cue to the rest, and “murder” went
round with affecting unanimity.

“Now, Mester Hapton,” Tim Dallott added, “everybody but you’s said
murder—you’ll not stand out.”

“I’m not one to be contrary-like,” Mr. Hapton said.  “But murder—it’s an
ugly business, that.”

“Well, it doesn’t matter very much,” I interposed.  “We’re not going to
hang anybody this afternoon.”

“Nor not to mention no names,” our foreman put in.  “Persons or person
unknown—that’s what it is.”

“Ah, well,” Mr. Hapton said, with a gloomy shake of the head, “if you’re
all set on murder, murder let it be, but it’s an ugly word.”

And that was our verdict—“Murder by some person or persons unknown.”
But, for my part, like Mr. Hapton, I wasn’t at all sure.  And, curiously
enough, the hatpin was not so much as mentioned.

It was the day following the inquest that I met Detective Pepster in the
village.

“Ah, good morning, Mr. Holt,” Pepster cried, as I joined him.  “How is
Cartordale using you these times?  Have you settled down amongst us?”

“More or less,” I replied.  “This place rather improves on acquaintance.
I think I would like to see a summer here.”

“Yes, it’s all right in the summer, if the summer is all right,” Pepster
rejoined dryly.  “But our summer isn’t much to rave over.  It doesn’t
last long enough.”

“No, that’s true.  And how is the mystery getting on?”

“The mystery?” Pepster echoed.  “Oh, you mean the murder.  It isn’t
getting on.  I was just coming along to see you.”

“To see me!” I cried.

“Oh, I’m not going to arrest you,” he returned, with a soft chuckle.
“No, not at all.  But do you know Kelham, of Scotland Yard?  I had a
letter from him to-day.  ‘Dennis Holt is living in your neighbourhood,’
he said.  ‘Ask him who murdered Clevedon.’  Now, what does he mean by
that?”

“Kelham—yes, I know Kelham very well,” I replied.  “He is a humorist.”

“Well, I wish he’d let me in on the joke, anyway,” Pepster said
discontentedly.  “Do you know who murdered Sir Philip Clevedon?”

“No,” I said, “not yet.  For that matter, I don’t even know that he was
murdered.  But I shall find out, and then I’ll let you know.”

“Do you belong to the Force?”

“Not at all.”

“Then are you—?

“Sherlock Holmes disguised,” I said with a laugh.  “Why not?  Anyway,
Kelham is no fool.  Why not take his advice and let me come in?  Not that
you can keep me out, but it’s easier.  I am not a detective, not at all,
but merely a writer of books.  Still, I have discovered a few little
things that have been useful to the police and especially to Kelham.”

“Are you quite sure you will know who—?”

“Oh, yes,” I replied.  “I am quite sure I shall know eventually.  But
whether the knowledge will be of any use to you is another matter.  I
only solve the mystery, but you have to prove the case.”

“Yes,” Pepster said thoughtfully, “and that is a different thing, isn’t
it?  I may have a good idea who did it, but where is my proof?  But as to
letting you in, it seems I can’t help myself.  I showed Kelham’s letter
to the Chief Constable this morning.  ‘Dennis Holt?’ he said.  ‘Is he at
Cartordale?  Did he come down especially for this?’  I told him, no, that
you’d been living here and that you’d been on the jury.  ‘Go and see
him,’ he said.  ‘Talk it over with him.  Tell him everything.’  And there
you are.”

“Just so,” I replied.  “And I’ll make the same bargain with you I did
with Kelham and his crowd.  What I discover I will pass on, but I don’t
appear in it publicly.  Do we work together?”

“Why, yes, certainly,” Pepster said.  “Since both Kelham and the Chief
insist on it I should be a fool to stand out.”

We strode along in silence for a few minutes.

“Of course,” Pepster remarked, “there are a few matters that haven’t—come
out.”

“There always are,” I replied, thinking of Kitty Clevedon’s midnight
visit regarding which, at present, at all events, I intended to say
nothing.

“For example, that valet, John Tulmin,” Pepster went on.  “Why should Sir
Philip Clevedon have given him a cheque for £500 the day before he
was—before he died?”

“That certainly hasn’t come out.  Did he?  And did Tulmin cash it?”

“Oh, yes, there was no particular secret about it.  The counterfoil of
the cheque-book seemed quite plain, ‘John Tulmin, £500,’ and the money
was paid out to Tulmin by the bank in Midlington at 11.30 on the morning
of the day Sir Philip was—died.  The bank knew Tulmin well.  He had often
transacted business for Sir Philip.  Now, suppose that cheque was a
forgery, or suppose it had been made out for £5 and Tulmin altered it to
£500, or suppose the money was really for household expenses, and Tulmin
stuck to it and Clevedon discovered it or Tulmin feared discovery, and
so—”

“There would be your motive, certainly,” I agreed.  “Has Tulmin explained
the cheque?”

“Well, not in detail.”

“Has he been asked?”

“Yes.”

“What did he say?”

“That it was money owing him.  ‘What about this cheque?’ I asked him.
‘Oh, the governor owed me that,’ he said.  But when I wanted something a
bit more definite be dried up.

“Any other cheques of that sort?”

“No, I don’t know.  I might inquire.”

“Perhaps it was salary.”

“No, Tulmin’s salary was paid monthly—£20 a month.  This is an extra.”

“And he declares it is money owing?”

“Yes.”

“Well, perhaps it was,” I said, as we drew up outside the little post
office where I had to make a call.  “Anyway, I don’t think I would arrest
Tulmin just yet.  Tell the Chief you have that from me.”

But what I wanted to know more than anything just then was why John
Tulmin was blackmailing Sir Philip Clevedon.




CHAPTER X
AN INVITATION FROM LADY CLEVEDON


“OH, Mr. Holt,” cried the young lady behind the counter of the little
general shop that was also the village post office.  “I have just taken a
telegram for you.  You can have it now if you like.  It’s against the
regulations, but that doesn’t matter.”

I took the yellow slip and perused the message which was from a
publishing firm with whom I was negotiating, offering me a price for a
manuscript I had submitted to them.

“It is a lot of money,” the girl said, with a touch of envy.  “It would
take me years and years to earn that at this job.”

“You’ll not be here years and years,” I replied smilingly.  “Some lucky
man will snap you up long before that.”

“Well, there’s no queue so far,” the girl returned dryly.

“Perhaps when Mr. Holt has quite finished, other customers may have a
turn,” said a mocking voice at my elbow, and wheeling round with a quick
movement that dislodged a pile of picture post cards and albums and
brought them clattering to the floor, I saw Kitty Clevedon’s face flushed
with pretty colour.

“I beg your pardon,” I said.  “I was just reading a telegram.”

“I have been down to Stone Hollow,” Kitty Clevedon went on.  “In fact, I
have been looking for you.  I have a message for you from Lady Clevedon.
She would like you to come and see her.”

“Yes?  When?”

“Well, could you come now?  I have my car here.”

I nodded assent, and followed her out of the shop to the smart little
two-seater, which she managed with a skill that betokened plentiful
practice.  As we drove off I saw Pepster walking slowly through the
village.

“I don’t know that man,” Kitty said, as Pepster saluted, “but I have seen
him about quite a lot lately.  And he was at the—the inquest.  I suppose
he belongs to the police.”

“Yes, a detective.  He is very interested in me.”

“I dare say you are a very interesting person,” Kitty rejoined equably.

“You see,” I went on, “I am under suspicion.”

She turned to have another look at Pepster, and the car swerved suddenly
to the left.

“Steady on!” I cried.  “You’ll have us into the wall.”

“But—I do not understand.  Why should they—?”

“Oh, the story is very simple.  The police knew I was out late on that
particular night. Sergeant Gamley saw me.  They questioned me, of course,
and after all, it was a trifle—er—suspicious-looking, wasn’t it?  Here
was I, a new-comer and a stranger, wandering about the Dale at midnight—”

I paused and glanced at her to note the effect of my words; and was
interested to see that she had grown perceptibly paler.

“But they—surely they didn’t suspect you?” she said, in tones that were
very little above a whisper.

“Oh, I don’t know,” I returned cheerfully, “why shouldn’t they suspect
me?  They know nothing about me, and certainly nothing that would count
particularly in my favour.  At all events, they questioned me.  Had I
seen anyone that night?  And I lied to them.  I had seen nobody at all.
There are occasions, you know, when mendacity may be condoned.”

Kitty gazed at me with wide-open eyes for fully a minute, then pulled
herself together with an effort and laughed with a quite passable
imitation of merriment.

“And had you seen anyone?” she asked.

“Yes,” I replied, smiling into her face.  “I had seen a very beautiful
and clever woman and an extremely capable actress whose ideas regarding
truth are apparently nearly as flexible as my own.”

She flushed a little, but remained apparently undisturbed by either the
compliment or the sarcasm.

“And which had committed the crime?” she asked.  “Was it the beautiful
and clever woman—you said beautiful and clever, didn’t you?—or the
capable actress?  But still, I don’t understand.  I thought you were a
great detective—a sort of Sherlock Holmes in real life.”

I threw myself back on the cushioned seat with a quick laugh.

“Where did you get that fairy story from?” I demanded.

“But—it’s true, isn’t it?”

“No,” I said, “I am not a detective, certainly not.  And I am not a great
anything, unless it be a great liar.  I have had a little practice at
that just lately.”

“But that is why auntie has sent for you,” she added, with a puzzled
frown.

“Because I am a great liar?” I asked.

“No,” she replied, quite seriously.  “Because you—because she thinks that
you—somebody told her you were a great detective.”

“Oh, yes, and why does she need the services of a—er—a detective?” I
demanded.

“She wants you to find out who murdered Sir Philip Clevedon.”

“I see.  And do _you_ want me to discover that?”

“Of course, but I don’t think you can.”

“If you thought I could, you wouldn’t want me to try—is that it?”

“No—oh, I don’t know what you mean.”

She gave all her attention to the car after that, while I, having nothing
particular to say, lapsed into silence.

We found Lady Clevedon seated in the small parlour, a square, cheerful
room, furnished evidently for comfort with couches and big arm-chairs.
The old lady bade me sit down and then plunged with characteristic
abruptness into the subject of the interview.

“What is your fee?” she demanded.

“My fee?” I echoed.  “But I have no fee.  I am neither a doctor nor a
solicitor.”

“Nor a parson—you may as well complete the usual trio,” the old lady said
dryly.  “But you are a policeman.”

The word was so unexpected that I could not forbear a soft laugh in
which, after a momentary hesitation, Miss Kitty Clevedon joined me.  I
expected her to label me detective; that she should call me policeman had
all the elements of novelty that go to make up unconscious humour.

“But policemen are not allowed to take fees,” I replied.  “They have
their salaries—or is it wages?”

“Do you get a salary?” Lady Clevedon demanded.

“No, but then you see I am not a policeman; I am merely a writer of
books.”

“But the Chief Constable of Peakborough-he is a cousin of mine, distant,
but still a cousin, and a fool at that, or he would have found out before
this who killed Sir Philip—told me you were a celebrated detective and
that if I could get your help—now, who did murder Sir Philip Clevedon?”

“Did you?” I asked, rudely enough I admit though the question was well in
accord with her own conversational style.  Nor did she take it amiss.

“I?  No,” she said.  “Why should I murder him?”

“Then if you are quite sure of that,” I returned, “you have all the world
to go at.  I may have done it, or Miss Clevedon may have done it, or
Tulmin may—”

“May, may, may—you tire me to death with your may’s.  I don’t want to
know who may have done it, but who did.  I suppose it is a case of the
needle in the haystack.”

“Even the needle in the haystack could be found, given the necessary time
and labour,” I observed.

“I wish you would talk sense,” the old lady rejoined tartly.  “I have had
that fat man Peppermint, Peppercorn—”

“Pepster,” I suggested.

“Yes—I have had him here and pumped him hard.  But he knows nothing,
merely talks in a squeaky voice and gets nowhere.  Now, how would you
start discovering who—?”

I found the old lady interesting and decided to humour her, not because I
intended to be of any use to her, but because it was just possible she
might be useful to me.

“Well,” I replied slowly, “there are several starting points.  For
example, who benefits most by his death?”

“Eh!”

I happened to glance just then at Miss Kitty Clevedon and noticed that
her face had gone an almost chalky whiteness that extended even to her
lips and that she was gripping the arm of her chair with a strong,
nervous tension.

“For instance,” I went on slowly, keeping my voice low and tranquil as if
it were really a matter of small importance, “who is Sir Philip’s heir?”

But I still kept my eyes on Kitty Clevedon and noted that her grip on the
chair tightened.

“Well, he didn’t do it, anyway,” Lady Clevedon retorted.

“No, I don’t suppose he did,” I returned, carefully refraining from
raising my voice.  “I merely said that he would be my starting point.
Then, doubtless, he would prove an alibi and I should eliminate him.”

“Billy might have hit him over the head with a stick,” Lady Clevedon went
on, “but he wouldn’t poison a man nor would he dig a hatpin into him.”

“Oh, you never know,” I replied cheerfully.  “Who is Billy?”

“Sir William Clevedon—the new baronet—Kitty’s brother,” the old lady
explained.  “But he never poisoned Philip.  They weren’t friends,
certainly, but then, Philip had no friends.  And they had quarrelled;
though for that matter Philip had quarrelled with Ronald Thoyne, as you
heard at the inquest.  Philip was that way.  He quarrelled with most
people.  But Billy didn’t do it.  He is with his regiment in Ireland,
trying to keep the Sinn Feiners quiet.”

“Then there is his alibi which rules him out,” I said.

But I made up my mind to learn more regarding Billy Clevedon.  His
sister’s agitation had been too pronounced to be disregarded; and it was
the more impressive in that I knew her for a very clever actress with a
singular capacity for holding her own and keeping a straight face.

What was it, I wondered, that had so completely upset her and smashed
down all her defences.  It did not take me long to decide that.  She had
been told that I was “a great detective” who would infallibly discover
the murderer and practically my first observation had been a direct hint
that her brother might be the man.  A suggestion so libellous should have
caused her to flame out in resentment and denial instead of which she had
had to exert all her strength and will-power to keep herself from
fainting.  There was more in all this than one could sum up in a moment
or two and I made up my mind then and there that Billy would become an
object of great interest to me.

It was not difficult to learn all I wanted.  The fact that most people
referred to him as Billy Clevedon and that no one called him Sir William
may indicate something of his general personality, though that would be
to do him some injustice since the diminutive was partly born of
affection and was partly a survival from bygone years.  There were those
who declared that his sister had been mainly responsible for the
reputation Billy had enjoyed for juvenile mischief.  I could well believe
that, knowing her in maturer years.  She would lead him on and he, being
a little gentleman, would bear the blame.

But that after all is only the female way.  Man was intended by Nature to
carry every burden save one and that the heaviest of the lot.  From my
housekeeper to whom I first applied I learnt little.  She had heard
stories but had never known Billy Clevedon personally.  I applied to both
Dr. Crawford and the Vicar, but with hardly more success.  They, too, had
the usual legends off by heart, but Billy had never been ill and had no
reputation for piety and seemed to have kept out of the way of both
doctor and parson.  Tim Dallott could tell me a little more but it
consisted chiefly of reminiscences of Sunday rat-hunts and fishing.
Among them all, however, I built up a picture of a freckled,
yellow-haired lad, full of high spirits and mischief, but honest and
never afraid to face punishment for what he had done.  And somewhere, not
far away, hovered incessantly the figure of his sister, as irrepressible
as himself but far more adroit.

But all that was years ago when they came as orphans to live at White
Towers, when Lady Clevedon’s husband was alive and before the late Sir
Philip had succeeded to the title.  In due time they both went away to
school and Cartordale knew them only in the holidays.  They were but
shadows of their former selves as far as their general activities went,
or possibly were more careful and clever at evading the results.

Eventually Billy Clevedon went into the army, but as a career, not merely
as a war measure, and won some distinctions in France.  But he justified
his old-time reputation in that he remained apparently a somewhat
incalculable quantity always doing the unexpected.  His sister, having
finished her education with more or less credit, accompanied her aunt to
Hapforth House and settled there, though during the war she engaged in
various occupations and learnt to drive a motor, milk cows, and use a
typewriter.




CHAPTER XI
A VISIT FROM RONALD THOYNE


THE “Waggon and Horses” in Cartordale was one of the best known inns in
the district, with a history behind it that went far beyond the printed
word into the mists and myths of legend and tradition.  I believe, in
fact, that it possessed its own duly authenticated ghost, that of a
sailor on tramp towards the coast, who had been murdered for his gold by
a rascally landlord and his wife.  This was well over two centuries ago
and it was a long time now since the sailor’s restless spirit had been
seen.  But the records of its appearances were definite and were at all
events implicitly believed in by the Dale folk.

The inn was a favourite visiting place of holiday-makers from Midlington
and on a fine Saturday afternoon or Sunday in the summer one might see
sixty or seventy vehicles lined up in the wide open space before the
entrance, while their passengers refreshed themselves within.

Tim Dallott, the landlord, was well known throughout the Dale and was
highly esteemed.  The new-fangled notion that an innkeeper is a sort of
semi-criminal had no countenance in Cartordale, where they liked their
ale and took it strong—as strong, that is, as a grandmotherly Control
Board would allow them to have it.

And, whatever else Tim Dallott was, he was a judge of ale and would have
only the best.  Being an observer of my fellow-man, I had early made
Tim’s acquaintance and had spent more than one interesting hour with him
and his customers.

Tim, himself, was a masterful man, rather given to laying down the law,
though with an occasional touch of humour that leavened his bluntness;
and he had a curious habit of screwing the forefinger of his right hand
into the open palm of his left when he was saying anything particularly
emphatic.  His build was inclined to stoutness and he was very bald for
all he was still some years off sixty.  His wife had died just before the
war and he had neither son nor daughter.  It was he, the reader will
recollect, who had been foreman of the jury at the Clevedon inquest.

“Well,” he said, as I entered the ‘snug,’ “and what do you think of it
all?  I haven’t seen you since the inquest, Mr. Holt.”

“Give me a glass of beer,” I replied.  “It puzzles me.”

“What I’d like to know,” chimed in old Tompkinson, who was verger at the
parish church and gardener at the vicarage, “is why old Crimin”—have I
explained that Crimin was the coroner?—“worried about that whisky
bottle.”

“Aye, you may say that,” Tim agreed, nodding his head with an air of
vague mystery.

“It seemed main foolish to me,” Tompkinson went on, “and I couldn’t get a
grip of it nohow.  Nobbut Crimin is a good crowner, I’m saying nowt agin
him, an’ I dessay he’d summat oop his sleeve an’ all, but I’m fair
bothered as to what it could be.”

“It’s bothering better men than you, Joe Tompkinson,” Tim Dallott said
dryly.

“But ain’t you got no idea, Mr. Dallott?” Joe asked.

“Perhaps I have and perhaps I haven’t,” was the cautious reply.  “Now
what would you say about it, Mr. Holt?”

A little, shrivelled old man, who had been seated in a corner by the
fire, sipping occasionally at a glass of hot rum, interposed suddenly.

“Who was the gal they quarrelled over?” he demanded in a shrill, piping
treble.  “I know who it was.”

“Then if I were you I’d keep it to myself, Jonathan Crossty,” Tim said.
“No names—think what you like but don’t say it out loud—that’s safest.”

Jonathan nodded as if in agreement and returned once more to his hot rum.

“Now, that whisky bottle,” Joe Tompkinson resumed, “how could any man
tell it was the same.  ‘Taint in sense, is it?  Then why worry?”

A youth came briskly in and asked for a glass of stout.  He caught Joe’s
last remark.

“Aye,” he said, “but there’s more than one theory will fit that.”

“You newspaper gentlemen are wonderful fond of theories,” Tim Dallott
responded.  “Your papers would be none the worse if you were a bit fonder
of facts.”

The youth laughed good-humouredly and took a long drink at his stout.

“Well,” he said, as he set his glass down again, “suppose that X—we’ll
not mention names, the libel laws being what they are—wanted to poison Z.
‘Bring me a whisky and soda,’ says Z.  And X, as he brings the bottle,
drops a dose of prussic acid in it.  Good!”

“I see nowt good in that,” Joe Tompkinson interrupted.

“You should skin your eyes, then,” Tim Dallott retorted brusquely.

“Well, it’s good enough, anyway,” the pressman went on.  “So Z drinks his
whisky and falls down dead.  Then X creeps in, takes away the doped
bottle, and smashes it, and puts another of the same brand in its place.
Could anyone tell that the bottle had been changed?”

“Meaning by Z, Sir Philip Clevedon,” Joe interposed, “and by X—”

“Didn’t I tell you to mention no names,” Tim interrupted angrily.  “If
you’re intent on dragging folk in by name go and do it outside and not in
this snug.”

“No offence meant,” Joe replied meekly.

“Well—no names, and stick to that,” Tim retorted.

“But there’s another way,” the pressman went on oracularly, obviously in
love with the sound of his own voice and delighted with the impression he
was making.  “Let’s suppose that X gives Z a drink of whisky at dinner
and then puts the bottle on the sideboard.  Presently Y creeps in and
drops the dope into the whisky and then, when Z has pegged out, comes
back and changes the bottles—how about that?  Y would be somebody who had
a grudge against Z—perhaps he had had a quarrel with him.  But the point
is here—nobody can swear it was the same bottle, that stands to reason.”

“You’ll not print either of these theories in your paper, I’ll bet a
dollar,” Tim Dallott said.

“Perhaps, and perhaps not,” the youth returned vaguely.  “That’s the
editor’s job, not mine.”

“I know the gal they quarrelled over,” Jonathan Crossty chimed in
suddenly.

“Who quarrelled over?” demanded the youth, wheeling round.  “Oh, you
mean—”

“I mean I won’t have any names in this snug,” Tim interrupted angrily.
“Don’t I keep saying it?  What a lot of cross-grained, gossiping old hags
it is.  X’s and Z’s are all right, but not names.”

“But that came out in evidence—that they’d quarrelled,” the reporter
said.

“The girl’s name didn’t, and it might be anybody.”

“But I know who it is,” Jonathan persisted.

I finished my drink and nodding a good night all round took myself off,
but not very far because I waited in the shadows until old Jonathan
Crossty came hobbling out.  I met him in the doorway.

“Hallo!” I cried.  “Not home yet, Mr. Crossty?”

I swung round and we went down the road together.  He lived in a little
cottage nearly opposite Stone Hollow, and it was thus quite natural that
we should be going the same way.

“And so you know the lady they quarrelled over,” I remarked, after a few
preliminary observations.

“Yes,” he replied, “but I’m not telling.  My grand-darter’s ‘tween maid
at Hapforth and she knows all about it.  They quarrelled over her right
enough.”

“Over your grand-daughter?” I queried.

“Over Lucy!” he said scornfully.  “Don’t be a big fule, mister.  Why
should they quarrel over Lucy?  She’s a good girl and she’s only sixteen.
Don’t you go for to mix her up in this business.”

“No,” I said, “I’m sorry.  Lucy, who’s as good as she’s pretty and—”

“Nay, she’s nowt to look at,” the old man said, with a chuckle.

“And so Lucy told you that both Sir Philip and Mr. Thoyne were in love
with Miss Kitty—”

“She never said nowt o’ th’ sooart,” the old man retorted.  “It’s none of
her business, is it?”

“Not at all,” I agreed.

I changed the subject after that and we discoursed on various matters of
no great interest to either of us until we parted at the gate of Stone
Hollow.

Later, when I had dined comfortably and well, and was seated in my study
smoking a cigar, Mrs. Helter, my housekeeper entered with the information
that Mr. Thoyne had called and wished to see me.

“He says he will not keep you long,” Mrs. Helter explained, “and his
business is not immediately pressing if you are otherwise engaged.  But,
if not, he says it would be convenient if you could see him now.”

“Mr. Thoyne,” I echoed.  “H’m, that’s rather funny.  But show him in,
anyway.”

Ronald Thoyne entered the room a moment or two later, a large, rather
lumbering figure in appearance but moving with a curiously alert
lightness.  His bulk signified strength, not fat.  I rose and greeted
him, then returned to my own chair.

“You will wonder why I have come,” Thoyne began, as he took the seat
indicated and selected a cigarette from the box I offered him.
Apparently, he wanted to maintain at least an appearance of friendship.
“No, thanks, I’ll have nothing to drink,” he added, as I motioned towards
the whisky on the table.  “But, now, as to the reason for coming, well,
in the first place, I have wanted to make your acquaintance.  The fact
that you are a near neighbour renders you—shall I say?—an object of
interest.  No, do not smile.  If that had been all I should have waited.
There is something else, but we shall come to that presently.”

I nodded, but offered no comment on these obviously preliminary
observations.  I was quite well aware that this was no mere friendly
call—that Thoyne had some very definite purpose in his mind—and I was
quite content to wait until it should suit him to disclose it.  Thoyne,
probably, had expected some sort of a reply, something that would, so to
speak, open a conversation and for a moment or two he paused.  But he did
not allow my calculated silence to disconcert him.

“I dare say,” Thoyne began again, “that my manner may seem a little
abrupt to you, Mr. Holt, but I always go straight to the point.  Perhaps
it would have been more tactful if I’d talked a bit first—yes.  I have
noticed that the people of these old countries like to go round and round
the mulberry bush before they come to the point, but that is not our
way—no, sir.  I had a lesson on that from old Silas Pegler when I was a
very young man.  He was president of the Trans-Central and scores of
other big things and he pulled all sorts of wires.  I had to see him once
about a deal and I began: ‘Good morning, Mr. Pegler, a fine morning,
isn’t it?’  But he only wrinkled his ugly old face and glared at me.
‘Young man,’ he said, ‘I am here to talk dollars, not weather.’  And
since then I have cultivated the habit of straight talk.  It pays in New
York but not so well in this country.  A lot of people write me down as
bad form and a man over here who is once labelled bad form had far better
be dead and buried.”

I lay back in my chair and regarded my visitor smilingly.  Certainly for
a person who cultivated a habit of straight talk, he was singularly
discursive.

“Are you intending to remain in Cartordale?” Thoyne asked, seeing that I
remained silent.

“I shall be here for a little while yet, though I cannot say that I have
made any definite plans,” I replied.

“But I mean as a permanent resident.  You see, somebody, I think it was
Dr. Crawford told me—hinted that you—.  Now, if you wanted to sell this
house, I’d like to buy it.”

The suggestion was so surprising that for a moment I had nothing to say,
but I recovered quickly, knowing that if there was an explanation it
would appear in due course.

“What are you prepared to offer for it?” I demanded cautiously.  “Since,
apparently, you want the house, you should be prepared to bid high for
it.  That makes a difference, doesn’t it?  The seller who wants to sell
would take less than—”

“Well, it’s like this,” Thoyne said persuasively.  “I shouldn’t have
thought of it but for Dr. Crawford.  He gave me the idea.  ‘I wish he
were staying amongst us,’ he said, ‘but I’m afraid, he’ll not be here
long!  A very charming young—’ yes, those were his words.”

“Almost photographic in their accuracy,” I said dryly.

“‘But he wants a customer for his house—hankers after the fleshpots of
London,’ said the doctor.  And I thought that perhaps—”

“I believe I did make some such remark—casually,” I said.  “But Dr.
Crawford took it too seriously.  This place improves on acquaintance.
No, on the whole, I don’t think I want to sell.”

“But—”

“Oh, let us forget Dr. Crawford.  I do not want to sell, therefore I must
be tempted.  It is your turn now—to tempt me.”

“I would give you—four thousand pounds.”

“The place isn’t worth that.”

“No, but I’m willing to give it.”

“Very good—it is yours.  There is a charming little cottage just by the
church that I could get for six hundred.  It would suit me exactly.”

Thoyne frowned heavily and spoke as if choosing his words with some care.

“I should attach to my offer a condition—that you leave Cartordale—and do
not return.  For that I would make it five thousand.”

“Ah, now we really are getting to the straight talk,” I said smilingly.
“Suppose we make it absolutely straight.  You want to get me out of
Cartordale—why?”

Thoyne sat silent for the space of fully two minutes.

“Straight talk doesn’t seem so easy as you thought—is that it?” I asked.
“But you owe me some explanation surely.”

“The talk is straight enough,” Thoyne responded half sullenly.  “I want
to get you out of Cartordale—yes, that is true, and I have told you so
frankly enough.  What do my reasons matter?  I am willing to pay.”

“Yes, it’s plain enough,” I returned.  “I will be equally straight.  I
decline to go.  Did Miss Kitty Clevedon send you here?”

“What has she to do with it—or you with her?” he demanded angrily.

But I saw easily enough that my chance shot had hit the mark.  And I sat
eyeing him thoughtfully for a moment or two wondering how far it would be
safe to go.

“I suppose,” I said, speaking calmly, even casually, as if it were a
matter of no great moment, “it was over Miss Kitty Clevedon that you
quarrelled with the late baronet.”

“You have no right—” he began explosively but I pulled him up.

“Oh, yes I have,” I replied, “you see I am retained, in a
semi-professional capacity—”

“Yes, I know,” he cried.  “That damned old fool—”

“Meaning whom?” I interrupted.

“Oh, I beg her pardon,” he said.  “Yes, I meant Lady Clevedon.  Why did
she want to drag you into it?  You have a reputation, haven’t you, for
solving such puzzles as—”

“Some little,” I agreed.  “I shall solve this.”

“Yes,” he said, “and I don’t want it solved.  At least, I want to see it
buried and forgotten.  The thing’s a damned nightmare.  There, now it’s
out.  We want you to drop the case—to go away and leave it alone.”

“We?” I echoed.  “Does Miss Clevedon know of this visit?”

“No, but she knows I am to try and persuade you to drop the case.  She
asked me—”

“It is for her sake you want me to leave it alone,” I commented.  “It is
not for yours.”

“Mine—no—it doesn’t concern me,” he replied, “except as everything that
interests her, concerns me.”

“But—doesn’t concern you?” I asked.  “Yet you were the last person known
to have quarrelled with—”

“If you mean to accuse me of the murder—”

“I don’t,” I interrupted promptly, “but look at the sequence.  You
quarrel with Sir Philip Clevedon and a few hours later he is dead.  Then
a celebrated detective—that I am neither a detective nor celebrated is
only a detail—is put on the case and you try to buy him off, to bribe him
in fact.”

“It is a complete case,” he admitted, with a quick grin.

“Yes,” I agreed, “the sort of completeness that is too good to be true.”

“Not at all,” he added, as the grin widened.  “I can already feel the
rope round my neck.”

He ran his finger along the inside of his collar with a very expressive
gesture.

“On the other hand,” I went on, still speaking with off-hand
tranquillity, “though you did not murder Sir Philip Clevedon you think
you know who did.”

He drew himself slowly up from the chair and stood over me with a face
that had gone curiously grey.

“I have in point of fact already begun my inquiries,” I went on, rising
in my turn and looking him straight in the eyes.  “Why hasn’t Sir William
Clevedon come to Cartordale to take up his title and estate?  He left his
quarters in Ireland on the 19th, three or four days before Sir Philip
Clevedon died.  He is still absent from duty.  You can learn a lot by
well-placed telegrams in a very short time.  Where is he now?  Where was
he on February 23rd?”

I knew now what Thoyne and Kitty Clevedon feared.  He stood glaring at me
for a moment or two, then buttoned his coat with fingers that trembled.

“I’ll go now,” he said.  “I don’t know that I have done anybody much good
by coming here but it seemed the quickest and straightest way.”

He did not offer his hand nor did he say another word, but opened the
door himself without waiting for my help and disappeared.




CHAPTER XII
RONALD THOYNE DISAPPEARS


THE next move in this very curious game was made by Pepster who called on
me a few days after my interview with Ronald Thoyne.

“I have a warrant for Tulmin’s arrest,” he announced.

“Yes,” I said, “I am not surprised.  I could see you were edging that
way.”

“It’s the right way.  Tulmin has disappeared.”

“Has he?  That is interesting at least.”

“Yes, he went from White Towers to Lennsdale—that is Mr. Thoyne’s house,
you know.  Thoyne engaged him the day after the inquest and he went at
once.  And now he has gone altogether.”

“Engaged him as what?”

“Same as Clevedon—valet, and so on.”

“How do you know?”

“I put someone on to watch him of course.  I wasn’t going to let him slip
away.  But he has managed it, at least so my man reports and he must be a
damned fool, as I told him.  He hasn’t been seen for two days.”

“Your man hasn’t?”

“No, I mean Tulmin.”

“Thoyne should know where he is.”

“He says he doesn’t but I haven’t seen him myself.  I am going up to
Lennsdale now to question him.  Would you care to come?”

At first I thought not, and then I altered my mind.  After all, Thoyne
really was right in the thick of it.

When we reached Thoyne’s house Pepster took the lead and rang lustily at
the bell, which was one of the old-fashioned type with a long, hanging
handle of cast-iron.  He had to ring three times before he obtained any
response and then the door was slowly opened to disclose a very old,
white-headed man standing blinking at us with watery eyes.  To Pepster’s
question as to whether Mr. Thoyne was at home he only shook his head, but
whether in negative reply or merely in stupidity we could not quite make
out.  The old man’s face at all events was devoid of expression.

“Do you mean he is not at home?” I demanded sharply.

“We will see for ourselves,” Pepster said, pushing past the old man into
the hall.  “Now, then, who else is in the house, and be careful what you
say or we may be taking you with us.”

Pepster was very angry that Tulmin had slipped through his fingers and
apparently regarded the old man as an ally of the enemy.

“Taking me with you!” the old fellow cried, in the quavering accents of
age.  “Taking me where?”

“To prison, old chap,” Pepster replied cheerfully.  “People who won’t
answer questions often find themselves in gaol.”

It was pure bluff and Pepster’s superiors would probably have had
something rather drastic to say had they overheard it.  But the detective
knew pretty well how far to go, and with whom it was safe to go even that
distance.

“But, dear sir, I have done nothing wrong,” the old man said, manifesting
a sudden fluency which caused Pepster to turn on him with a sharp glance.
“I am a very old man, gentlemen, seventy-seven, and I have never been in
any trouble of that sort, never, gentlemen.”

“You are making for it now,” Pepster rejoined dryly.

“But, gentlemen, I—”

“Look here,” Pepster said, “we asked you a question—where’s Thoyne?  If
you mean to answer that, get going, and quick.  If you don’t mean to
answer it, don’t talk at all.”

“But, sir, I—”

“Where’s Mr. Thoyne?”

“But, gentlemen, if you would—”

“Where’s Mr. Thoyne?”

“He—I don’t know.”

“Is he in the house?”

“I don’t know.”

“What do you mean, you don’t know?”

“I don’t know who Mr. Thoyne is, I—I never heard of him.”

“You are in his house.”

“Yes”

“Where are the other people—the servants—the housekeeper—?”

“There is nobody here but me, gentlemen, truly there is nobody here.  I
am alone in the house, me, Silas Ballaker, seventy-seven—”

“How long have you been in this house?”

“Not long—I came to-day—”

“Came to-day—what do you mean, you came to-day?”

“Sir, I am Silas Ballaker and—”

“Yes, you said that before, and you are seventy-seven years of age.
Neither statement interests us.  We want Mr. Thoyne.”

“Hallo! hallo!” cried suddenly a new voice.  “Silas, who are these
gentlemen?  Ha! Mr. Pepster, I did not recognise you.  Have you come to
take my house?”

“No, Mr. Bannister,” Pepster replied slowly.  “I haven’t come to take any
house.”

He paused, a little irresolute, knowing that Mr. Bannister was a
different proposition from old Silas Ballaker and that he would have to
be a little more careful.

“May I ask what you are doing here?” Pepster went on.

“Now is that a kindly personal inquiry from a friend or is it asked in an
official capacity?”

Mr. Bannister was a little fat man, with two small, keen eyes peering out
of a sallow, bearded face.

“Oh, purely personal,” Pepster replied, a little impatiently.  “We came
to see Mr. Thoyne.  I was merely surprised to see you where we
expected—someone else.”

“Oh, Thoyne, yes, he was my tenant.  But he has gone.  Gave me notice
some days ago, paid me up and cleared out.  A good tenant, very good.  I
was sorry to lose him—yes.  He said he was going back to America and he
left this morning.  I sent old Silas here as caretaker.  Good old chap,
Silas, but—”

He tapped his head significantly with the forefinger of his right hand.
The old man did not see the movement but he caught the words.

“They have come to take me to prison,” he said mournfully.

“To prison!” cried Mr. Bannister.  “Nonsense!  What for?  What have you
been doing, old Silas?”

“I haven’t been doing nothing,” Silas quavered.  “But this stout
gentleman seemed mortally offended and—”

“Oh, we’ll see, we’ll see,” Mr. Bannister said.  “Now, Mr. Pepster, what
does all this mean?”

“We want to see Mr. Thoyne and—”

“He isn’t here.”

“Well, we should like to look through the house—”

“Yes, yes, and no doubt you have a search warrant?”

“I have no search warrant,” Pepster said patiently.  “I am asking your
permission.”

“No, no, let’s do everything in order.  No warrant, no search.  An
Englishman’s house, et cetera, you know.  Can’t be done, Mr. Pepster,
can’t be done.  Think what would happen if the papers got hold of it.
High-handed action by a Peakborough detective—eh?”

“The papers will not get hold of it if you don’t tell them,” Pepster said
quietly.

“Oh, one never knows.  How do these fellows get hold of things?  It’s
wonderful, but, you know, it’s their job.  And your Chief is just a bit
nervous, isn’t he?”

“I could get a warrant in an hour,” Pepster said.

“Well, why not?  The house won’t disappear in an hour.  It will still be
here and so will old Silas.  But if it’s Thoyne you want, a warrant’ll
not help you.  He isn’t here.”

“His furniture is,” I interposed.

“No,” Mr. Bannister replied, with an oily smile, “you are wrong there
also.  The furniture’s mine.  I let it furnished.”

“Did you see Mr. Thoyne go?” I asked.

“Yes, I was here.  He handed me the key.”

“Had he a man named Tulmin with him?”

“He had a servant, a little man, but I don’t know what his name was.”

“They have gone away together,” Pepster said, turning to me.  “Come
along, there’s nothing more to do here!”

“If you want to go through the house—” Mr. Bannister began.

“We don’t,” Pepster rejoined promptly.  “We’ll take your refusal and if
anything occurs we’ll call you as a witness.”

“But—”

“Is Thoyne in the house?”

“He isn’t.”

“Then good day to you.”

We turned away and though Mr. Bannister did not quite seem to like it, he
made no effort to detain us.

“Yes, they’ve gone away together,” Pepster repeated, as we strolled
towards Stone Hollow.  “Why has Thoyne taken Tulmin out of the way?”

“It may be only a coincidence,” I observed.

“It would be a curious coincidence,” Pepster remarked.  “Not that I rule
coincidences out myself.  They happen.  I have run up against some very
queer instances in my time.  I once had a case in which a man prepared a
dose of poison for another man.  The latter died of poison and the other
gave himself up to justice.  A clear case—but when the post-mortem took
place it was found that the victim had died of quite another sort of
poison altogether.  He had, in fact, committed suicide and had never
taken the dose prepared for him by the would-be murderer!”

“But if this isn’t a coincidence, then there must be an explanation,” I
said.  “How would this do?  Ronald Thoyne quarrels with Sir Philip
Clevedon over Miss—over a woman. Then Thoyne pays Tulmin to assassinate
Sir Philip.  That is why Thoyne took the man into his service so
promptly.  But they find the chase getting too hot for them and so they
clear out.  What?”

“Is that the story?” Pepster demanded, evidently impressed.

“No,” I replied, “I am quite sure it isn’t.  But it would fit the facts
up to date, wouldn’t it?”

“I shall go after Tulmin, anyway,” Pepster rejoined.

I nodded smilingly, but did not further discuss the matter though I
divined Thoyne’s move.  He had taken Tulmin away in order to divert
suspicion from young Clevedon.  How far Thoyne had taken Tulmin into his
confidence I did not know.  Perhaps he had bluffed him as he had tried to
bluff me.  And at all events he would have paid him well.  Whatever
faults Thoyne may have possessed any form of parsimony was certainly not
one of them.




CHAPTER XIII
THE VICAR’S STORY


IT was by means of the Vicar that the story was carried a stage further.
I had made the old man’s acquaintance soon after I first came to
Cartordale and had conceived a great liking for the gentle, kindly old
parson and his bustling, energetic, rather autocratic wife.

The Rev. Herbert Wickstead was an elderly man, with a thin, colourless
face, short-sighted eyes and a scholarly stoop.  As a preacher, he was
not very much, for, though he did some hard thinking and was now and
again original, he possessed very little gift for literary expression and
none at all for oratory.  Nor was he very much more successful in
parochial work, though that did not greatly matter since his wife—Mrs.
Vicar, as she was generally labelled—possessor of the quickest of tongues
and the kindest of hearts, took the heaviest part of that burden upon her
own shoulders.

I met him by the vicarage on the afternoon of the day following our visit
to Thoyne’s house and when he asked me to go in and have some tea I
accepted chiefly because I thought he, or at any rate Mrs. Vicar, might
be able to tell me some of the things I wanted to know.  You see, I was
still very much of a stranger in Cartordale with only a vague and shadowy
knowledge of its people.  In some ways that may have been a gain though,
generally speaking, it was a handicap.  He began on one of the subjects
uppermost in my mind almost as soon as we were seated at the table.

“I was very sorry to learn to-day that we are losing Mr. Thoyne,” the
Vicar said, in his halting drawl.

He took off his spectacles and polished them with the corner of his
handkerchief, peering mildly at the rest of us the while, though his
remark had evidently been addressed to his wife.

“He very seldom came to church,” Mrs. Vicar snapped.

“No, not frequently,” the Vicar admitted, “not so frequently as I could
have wished.  But he was very generous—very.  Any story of distress or
need was very sure of a sympathetic hearing.  I have dipped rather deeply
into his purse more than once.”

“Who told you he was leaving?” his wife asked.

The Vicar selected a slice of bread-and-butter with great deliberation
from the plate before him.

“I was sorry I had no opportunity of bidding him good-bye,” he went on,
apparently ignoring his wife’s question though most likely he had not
heard it.  “True I saw him yesterday but I had no chance then.  I was
returning from a visit to Sarah Blooms—poor woman—”

“She died this morning,” his wife chimed in, a little snappily I thought,
though that may have been because I was not quite used to her
conversational style.

“Ah, yes—dear me! dear me!”

The Vicar relapsed into silence.

“You were telling us, sir—?” I ventured, after a pause.

“Yes, yes, of course, I was returning from my visit to Sarah Blooms and
was passing the end of Pallitt’s Lane when Mr. Thoyne passed me in his
motor-car.  There was a lady with him, Miss Clevedon, I think, though I
could not be very sure of that.”

“Were they alone in the car?” I asked.

“Oh, yes, as far as I could see, quite alone.”

“With Mr. Thoyne driving, perhaps?”

“Oh, no, they were in the body of the car.  There was the chauffeur and
another man on the front, a servant, I think.”

“You did not recognise the second man?”

“Well, no, to tell you the truth I did not take particular notice of
him.”

It was at least level betting that the second man was Tulmin.  But what
interested me most was the fact of Kitty Clevedon’s presence in the car.
It seemed to suggest that whatever was going on, she had a hand in it.

“I have heard their names coupled more than once—Mr. Thoyne and Miss
Clevedon,” Mrs. Vicar declared.

“Is that so?” the Vicar queried.  “I had not heard it.  But it would be a
very suitable match too.  He has money and physical strength and she has
youth and beauty.  That should make an ideal combination.  They seemed
very happy and comfortable—I noticed that.  As they passed me he was
talking to her, but they both saw me.  Thoyne nodded to me as they went
past.”

“And how do you know he’s gone for good?” Mrs. Vicar demanded.

“Oh, yes, it was Miss Kitty who told me that.  I met her again an hour or
two later and I asked her if she thought Mr. Thoyne would take the chair
next Wednesday.  She said he couldn’t because he had left Cartordale and
had given up his house.  She said, I think, that he was going abroad—”

“On his yacht, I expect,” Mrs. Vicar chimed in.

“Lucky man!” I interjected.  “So he possesses a yacht, does he?”

“A lovely vessel,” Mrs. Vicar replied, with enthusiasm.  “I haven’t seen
it, but he gave us a lecture with limelight views, ‘Round the World by
Steam’ he called it, and he showed us a lot of pictures of his yacht.
The _Sunrise_ its name is, and he says he gave it that name because he
uses it to go where the sun is—one of the privileges of wealth, Mr.
Holt,” she added, with a sigh.

“Had Mr. Thoyne been long in Cartordale?” I asked.

“Oh, well, it would be about two years, or, let me see, perhaps a little
longer,” Mrs. Vicar replied.  “He fought in the war, you know, and was
wounded.  He stayed as a lodger for some months at Lepley’s Farm and then
took Lennsdale which belongs to Mr. Bannister of Peakborough, an
auctioner and agent and all sorts of things generally, who lets it
furnished—”

“Lepley,” I murmured, “that name seems familiar—”

“Yes,” Mrs. Vicar went on, right in her element now, “you will be
thinking of the girl who gave evidence at the inquest, Nora Lepley, tall,
good-looking, with dark eyes.  She lives at the farm though she sometimes
stays at White Towers with her aunt, the housekeeper there.  I remember
there was some talk about Ronald Thoyne and Nora Lepley, but there was
nothing in it, or, anyway nothing came of it.  Talk’s easy in a place
like this, you know—there is nothing else to do.  And there’s always been
plenty of talk round Nora Lepley—”

“A good girl, my dear, a good girl,” the Vicar mildly interposed.

“Oh, yes, quite,” Mrs. Vicar admitted.

“Exceptionally well able to take care of herself I should imagine,” was
my own comment, whereat Mrs. Vicar nodded emphatically.

It was two days after that conversation that I met Detective Pepster in
the village.

“Ah, Mr. Holt,” he said, “I was coming to see you.  I have found out
where Mr. Thoyne is.”

“Why,” I returned, “there was no particular mystery about that, was
there?  He’d made none so far as I know.  What is the point?”

“Well—he disappeared.”

“Disappeared?  Do you call it that?  He left the furnished house he’d
been occupying and went off to his yacht, the _Sunrise_, but that isn’t
disappearing.”

“No—well, perhaps in a way it isn’t.  But I’m going to interview Mr.
Ronald Thoyne for all that and with a warrant in my pocket—”

“It hardly seems likely that Thoyne—”

“I don’t put my money on what is likely,” Pepster interrupted.  “I’ve
been had that way.  I once had a case of the theft of a diamond ring.
There were only three men possible—a bookmaker who’d once been in prison
for horse-doping, a defaulting bankrupt and a clergyman.  I arrested the
horse-doper and kept an eye on the bankrupt, but it was the parson who
had the ring.”

“You ought to write your reminiscences,” I remarked dryly.

“I am looking forward to doing so when my pension falls due,” Pepster
returned, entirely unabashed.  “But, now, let’s talk business.  The
warrant isn’t for Thoyne himself, but for Tulmin.  Thoyne will come into
it later—accessory after or before the fact, you know.  Tulmin will do to
be going on with.”

“You think Thoyne has taken Tulmin on board the yacht with him?”

“I don’t know—perhaps—perhaps not.  But Thoyne has spirited Tulmin away
somehow, somewhere.  Isn’t that clear?  And why has he done it?”

“Yes, I know, you explained before that Thoyne had paid Tulmin to murder
Sir Philip—”

“No, Mr. Holt, that was your theory,” Pepster explained patiently.  “And
you said you didn’t believe it.  No, Thoyne may have done the murder
himself, or he may not, and Tulmin may have spotted him at it.  But, to
tell the truth, I’m not worrying about that just now.  It is Tulmin I
want.  There’s enough against him to be going on with, anyway, and I mean
to get him and to learn why Thoyne carried him off.  Will you come down
to Ilbay with me?”

“Ilbay?”

“Yes, the yacht’s there.”

“When do you go?”

“To-morrow.”

“No,” I said slowly, “I can’t go to-morrow.  I could go the next day, but
not to-morrow.”

“Well, that’ll do,” he replied.  “There’s a breakdown in the machinery
and he can’t shift for at least four days.  I’ve got that much anyhow.
The day after to-morrow, then.  I’ll send you a list of the trains.”

An hour or so later I called at Hapforth House and was shown into the
presence of Lady Clevedon and Miss Kitty.

“Well,” said the old lady, a little tartly, “have you made any
discoveries?”

“Yes,” I returned equably, “several.  But I have run up against a brick
wall and I’ve come to you to pull it down for me.  I can’t get over it or
under it or round it.”

“I don’t know what you are talking about!” the old lady cried irascibly.
“The question is—do you know who killed Philip Clevedon?”

“Well,” I said, “it depends.  Perhaps I do, and possibly I am wrong.”

I glanced casually at Miss Kitty Clevedon, over whose pretty face some
inward emotion had drawn a greyish pallor that extended even to her lips.
It was quite certain that the last thing she wanted to hear was the name
of the person who had killed Sir Philip Clevedon.  But she was seated a
little behind the old lady who noticed nothing.




CHAPTER XIV
KITTY SENDS A TELEGRAM


“AND when will you arrest him?” Lady Clevedon demanded.

“Ah, yes,” I returned slowly, “that is just it.  You see, the difference
between knowing and proving is several thousand miles and this brick
wall—”

“Oh, you and your brick walls!” the old lady cried, waving her hands with
an impatient and fretful gesture.  “I want to see the murderer hanged and
the whole thing cleared away and forgotten.  He was stabbed with my
hatpin and there are people silly enough to—”

“But, Auntie, Mr. Holt must be able to prove his case before he can
arrest—anyone,” Miss Kitty Clevedon chimed in.

She spoke naturally and the colour had returned to her cheeks.  My
graphic description of the difference between knowledge and proof had
apparently brought its consolation.

The old lady snorted disagreeably but seemed to have no convincing retort
ready.

“And what is the brick wall you chatter so much about?” she demanded.

“I want to know,” I said slowly, examining the back of my left hand with
apparent solicitude, “what hold the late Sir Philip Clevedon had over
Miss Clevedon that she broke off her engagement with Mr. Ronald Thoyne
and consented to marry the late baronet?”

There was for a moment or two a dead silence in the room, a silence that
could be felt and almost touched.  It was the old lady who finally
exploded in a manifestation of wrath.

“My niece was never engaged to Ronald Thoyne,” she cried.  “You are
impertinent.”

“Never?” I queried, ignoring her concluding sentence.

“And she never promised to marry Sir Philip Clevedon.”

“No?”

She turned suddenly on the girl who, as I have said, was seated a little
behind her.

“Was that what they meant at the inquest?” she demanded.  “They said—that
housekeeper, wasn’t it?—that Philip Clevedon and Ronald Thoyne quarrelled
over—over a—a woman.  Was that it?  Tell me the truth.”

“I don’t know what Mr. Holt is talking about,” the girl replied
carelessly.

She had entirely recovered her equanimity and was completely mistress of
herself again.

“You were not engaged to Mr. Thoyne?” I asked.

“I was not.”

“And Sir Philip did not want to marry you?”

“Yes, he did,” Lady Clevedon interposed.  “He proposed to you a year ago
and you refused him.  Was it over you they quarrelled, Kitty?”

“I don’t know anything about it,” Miss Clevedon returned a little
wearily.  “I don’t know why they should.”

The old lady rose from her seat and strode towards a little bureau in one
corner of the room from which she took a bundle of newspaper cuttings.

“Yes, here is the report,” she said, and she began to read an extract
from Mrs. Halfleet’s evidence in a loud, rather strident voice.

    “_I heard Sir Philip say_, ‘_You are talking nonsense_.  _I cannot
    compel her to marry me against her will_.  _The decision rests with
    her_.’  _He was not exactly shouting but was speaking a little more
    loudly than usual_.  _Mr. Thoyne seemed angry_.  ‘_You must release
    her from her promise_,’ _he said_.  _His voice was hoarse and he
    struck the table with his stick as he spoke_.  _I think Sir Philip
    stood up from his seat then_.  _I did not see him_, _of course_, _but
    I seemed to hear him walking up and down_.  _And he spoke sharply_,
    _almost angrily_.  _The words appeared to come out with a sort of
    snap_.  ‘_I have nothing to say in this matter_,’ _Sir Philip
    declared_.  ‘_I neither hold her to her promise nor release her from
    it_.  _The decision rests solely with her_.  _If she notifies me that
    she cannot marry me_, _I have no power to compel her_.  _But I am not
    prepared to take your word for it_.  _The decision must come from
    herself_.’  _Mr. Thoyne said_, ‘_That is your last word_, _is it_?’
    _to which Sir Philip replied_, ‘_My first word and my last_.  _As far
    as I am concerned I am engaged and remain engaged until the young
    lady herself notifies me that the engagement is at an end_.’  _Then
    Mr. Thoyne said_, ‘_If you don’t release her I shall find a way of
    making you_—_I shall find a way_.’”

The old lady ceased reading and glanced at Kitty over the top of her
spectacles.

“What is behind it?” she cried.  “Tell me, what is behind it all?”

“I don’t know,” Kitty said.  “How should I know?”

“But—was it—who was it?”

“It may have been—Nora Lepley.”

I think she uttered the name quite on the spur of the moment and with no
previous intention of taking that way out.  At all events, for a moment
or two the suggestion seemed rather to impress the old lady, then she
shook her head.

“I don’t say that Nora Lepley—Philip Clevedon was like all other men, I
dare say, no better and no worse.  But he wouldn’t want to _marry_ her.
They might fight over Nora Lepley, yes, but it wouldn’t be because either
of them wanted to marry her.”

“Why shouldn’t they want to marry Nora—she is very nice?” Kitty said.

“Don’t talk nonsense, child,” the old lady cried.

“These are democratic days—” I was beginning, but the old lady turned on
me almost ferociously.

“I wasn’t asking you for your views,” she said.  “And we’ll leave it at
that.  These two men quarrelled over Nora Lepley, or Jane Smith, or
Martha Tompkins, and so—”

I rose from my seat and stood regarding them with a smile.

“And so my question goes unanswered,” I murmured, “and my brick wall
remains.”

The old lady looked from me to Miss Kitty Clevedon and then back again.

“Yes,” she said, “and that ends the case.  You must drop it—do you
hear?—drop it.  I am getting in deeper than I thought.”

I laughed quietly and then went towards the door.

“I am seeing Mr. Thoyne at Ilbay to-morrow,” I said, pausing there to
make quite sure Kitty heard me, “and I will ask him.”

I left them, probably wondering what might be the precise meaning of that
last promise—or was it a threat?—and finding my way out strolled slowly
down to the big gates.

Once in the public road, however, I indulged in a course of action that
might possibly have seemed a little strange to an uninitiated spectator.
First of all I stood glancing here and there around me as if looking for
someone or something.  Then I made my way to the side of the road and
clambered to the top of a small pile of boulders on the summit of which I
found a seat on a flat stone, so placed that I was invisible to anyone
coming from Hapforth House or proceeding in either direction along the
road.  Having made myself as comfortable as the circumstances permitted,
I took out my watch.  “Now for the test,” I murmured.  “Unless I am out
in all my deductions Kitty Clevedon will emerge from Hapforth House in
something like half an hour.”

In point of fact it was precisely twenty-three minutes, and curiously
enough she did exactly as I had done—stood outside the big gates and
looked carefully about her in all directions.  But there the resemblance
ended.  She did not, like me, climb any of the neighbouring rocks, but
set off at a smart pace in the direction of Cartordale village, whither
also in a very few minutes I followed her.  “Mistake number one, young
lady,” I murmured.  “You should have taken your car into Midlington.  You
wouldn’t have lost much time and you would have made it safe.  Now, then,
for the post office.”

I was right again.  It was into the little village post office that Kitty
Clevedon turned.  I did not follow her, but instead stepped into the
garden that ran alongside the house and sat myself down on a rustic seat
that stood just below a small window, and was hidden from the roadway by
a huge, black, soft-water butt.  It had been a discovery of my own, made
quite casually a few days previously, and merely noted as I noted
everything.  From that seat it was possible to hear quite plainly the
tapping of the telegraph instrument within.  Ah, there it was now,
tap-tap-tap-tap, H, TAP-tap-TAP, K, TAP-tap, N—oh, yes, of course “H.
knows—”

Poor Kitty!  She did not dream that the man she dreaded was seated under
that little window reading her message as easily as if she had shown him
the form on which she had written it.  “H. knows your address and is
coming to-morrow to see you.”  I sped out of the garden and through the
village, and taking a short cut met Kitty on her way back to Hapforth
House.  I was strolling along dragging my stick behind me, and I stopped
as I reached her.

“Have you sent your telegram to Mr. Thoyne?” I asked.

She was trying to bluff me and I did not mean to spare her.  Why should
I?  It was she who had declared war.

“My—my—I do not understand you, Mr. Holt,” she stammered, for once taken
off her guard.

“Quite a random shot of mine,” I replied smilingly.  “I inadvertently let
out that I was going to Ilbay to see Mr. Thoyne, and it was natural you
should want to warn him.”

“But what have I to do with—with Mr. Thoyne, and why should I want to
warn him?  Why shouldn’t you visit him if you wish?”

“But you did send him a wire, didn’t you?” I persisted.

“You are impertinent, Mr. Holt!” she cried.

“Yes, I fear I am,” I agreed.  “One often has to be in such jobs as this.
And it is your own fault, you know.”

“My fault!”

“Yes, you challenge me by your whole attitude.  Your visit that night—”

“I have already denied any visit.”

“You adhere to that—good.  But, don’t you see that that is the challenge?
And now we have this quarrel between Thoyne and Sir Philip Clevedon—”

She turned on me swiftly with flaming cheeks and eyes that sparkled
angrily, but I interrupted the coming outburst.

“I am sorry I have offended you,” I said, “but I am afraid that was
inevitable.  You would have done better to trust me.  Anyway, I am in
this case and I intend to solve the problem it presents.  If it is to be
war between us—”

“I do not understand you, Mr. Holt.”

“Let it be war, then, and we’ll fight it out.”

And I continued on my way, still dragging my stick behind me.




CHAPTER XV
ON RONALD THOYNE’S YACHT


ILBAY we discovered to be a very tiny village, hardly more than a cluster
of cottages, a small inn and a church.

There was a jetty, built of stone in a rough-and-tumble fashion that
clearly betokened amateur workmanship, and flanked on either side by a
semi-circular sweep of sandy beach that ended in a jumble of rocks lying
at the bases of tall cliffs.  The road came over the hills after
threading its way through vast moorlands and dipped steeply down to the
village and the sea.

“The yacht is still here,” Pepster announced, on his return from what he
described as “an early morning prowl round.”

“Can we get a boat?” I asked.

“I have already annexed one,” Pepster replied.  “We mustn’t waste time in
this case.  The yacht may up-anchor and steam off at any minute.  The
boat is ready and the men are waiting.”

“The sooner the better,” I agreed.  “It is understood that you do all the
talking?”

“It shouldn’t need much talking, but anyway I’ll start it.”

“Then the sooner the better,” I repeated.

“Let us be off.”

Ronald Thoyne met us on the deck of the yacht and stood with his hands
clasped loosely behind him, surveying us with a queer, twisted smile on
his face.  He waited for us to speak and evidently had no intention of
helping us out.  If he wondered how we had caught his trail he said
nothing.

“We have come,” Pepster began, “for a word or two with Tulmin.”

“Tulmin!” Thoyne exclaimed.  “What a disappointment when I thought it was
a friendly call on myself.  Though I can’t say you look very friendly or
I might invite you to stay to lunch.  I have quite a good cook, a negro,
certainly, but in his way a genius.  Now if—”

“I suppose,” Pepster said with a smile, “you are talking to gain time.”

“No, not at all,” Thoyne replied calmly.  “Why should I?  Let us come
down to bedrock facts.  Tulmin isn’t here.”

“We traced him here,” Pepster interposed in his small, squeaky voice.
“He was here, you know.”

“Was he?”

“You see,” Pepster went on, “I have a warrant for his arrest, and if you
continue to conceal him you are interfering with the law, always a rather
dangerous proceeding.”

“Your little lecture is interesting,” Thoyne replied carelessly, “but
doesn’t apply.  You see, I am an American citizen and your law doesn’t
interest me.  This ship sails under the Stars and Stripes, you know, and
you daren’t forcibly seize anyone from under that flag.  No, don’t get
angry—it won’t pay you.  I have a dozen men on board who will obey my
lifted finger.  If I told them to pitch you into the water, into the
water you would go.”

He turned his back on us and leaning his elbows on the brightly polished
rail, gazed down into the cool, green depths of the water that was
lap-lapping idly against the sides of the vessel.

“But I am not angry,” Pepster explained, “only interested.  Is that your
case—that Tulmin is aboard the vessel, but that I dare not take him off
an American ship?  If that is so—”

“Don’t be a damned fool!” Thoyne retorted roughly, facing us again.

“I won’t—more than I can help,” Pepster responded mildly.

“Well, anyway, you can search the yacht,” Thoyne went on.  “Tulmin isn’t
here—I know nothing of him.”

He took a whistle from his pocket and blew a shrill note which was
answered almost simultaneously by a sprightly youth, who must have been
waiting near at hand, so rapid was his appearance.

“Bender, take this gentleman over the yacht and show him
everything—everything, damn you!”

“Yes, sir.”

Pepster glanced at me but I shook my head.  I intended to have a few
words with Thoyne on my own account.

“I’m no good at a search,” I said.  “That is police work.  I’ll leave it
to you.”

It was the first time I had spoken since we had boarded the yacht.

“And now,” Thoyne said, facing me with glaring eyes, “perhaps you’ll tell
me what the hell sort of game you think you are playing.”

I regarded him smilingly for a moment or two.

“Did you get Miss Clevedon’s telegram?” I asked.

“Why,” he said quickly, “did she tell—oh, I don’t know what you are
talking about.  And I don’t understand why you want to butt in on this.
What business of yours is it, anyway?”

“Well, I thought perhaps it was the telegram that caused you to send
Tulmin away so hurriedly yesterday,” I remarked.

He stood glaring at me for a moment or two, then turned away with a quick
laugh.

“Why should I let you go now you are here?” he said.  “Tell me that.  You
are in my power and I could carry you and that fat fool who came with you
to the ends of the earth.  What could you say?”

“I am sure it would be an enjoyable trip,” I replied.

“Oh, it would be all right.  I would see to that.  I shouldn’t ill-use
you—only keep you locked up until we were well away.”

“Yes,” I remarked, “it sounds all right.  But in the first place, you
can’t move until your missing machinery comes to hand and—”

“What the devil do you know about my missing machinery?” he roared.
“But, of course, I was only talking off the top,” he went on.  “I am
doing nothing desperate.  But, now, man to man, what is the game?  Put
your cards on the table, face up.”

“And yours?”

“I’ll see.”

“You mean you’re not playing your own hand.  Well, it’s a one-sided
bargain, but I’m willing.  Listen carefully and then do just as you like,
with this certainty in your mind that what you try to hide I shall
nevertheless discover.  I need only remind you of what I have already
told you—Miss Clevedon’s wire and Tulmin’s hurried departure, not to
mention the missing machinery.  You may deny as much as you like but you
know full well it is all true.  Now, then, for the story.  Pepster wants
Tulmin in order that he may arrest him for the murder of Sir Philip
Clevedon.  Not that he believes Tulmin to be the principal or is quite
sure that he actually did the killing.  But—why are you keeping Tulmin
out of the way?”

“Perhaps I was the—”

“Perhaps you were,” I agreed equably.

Thoyne glared at me speechlessly for a moment or two, then threw back his
head with a great, bellowing roar of laughter.

“And is that your theory?” he demanded, when he had regained breath.

“No,” I replied, still speaking with careful deliberation.  “I am not
very keenly interested in Tulmin nor in yourself, except just in passing.
It is someone—quite—different.  Who stands to gain most from Sir Philip
Clevedon’s death?  Tell me that.”

His face went as white as Kitty Clevedon’s had done when I made a similar
suggestion in her presence at Hapforth House.

“But I am not clear on details,” I went on, “and what I want to know—the
real reason, indeed, for my being here—is why Miss Kitty Clevedon
promised to marry Sir Philip, though it is quite obvious that her
affections are—otherwise bestowed.  Now let us take the course of events.
You quarrelled with Sir Philip Clevedon over a woman—and that woman was
Miss Kitty Clevedon.”

“It is a lie—a damned lie!” he said thickly, clenching his great fists.

“It was stated by Mrs. Halfleet at the inquest—”

“Kitty’s name—Miss Clevedon’s name was never—Mrs. Halfleet mentioned no
name.”

“Miss Clevedon promised to marry Sir Philip and you quarrelled with him
in consequence.  Why did she promise?”

“It’s a lie—she never did.”

“Then perhaps you will tell me the name of the woman over whom you
quarrelled.”

“It was nobody you know.”

“I have been told—it was suggested—that it was Nora Lepley.”

“Nora Lepley!  What the devil has she to do with it?”

“Oh, I don’t know.  It is not my suggestion because, you see, I know who
the lady was.  The one missing link in my chain of evidence is not the
lady’s identity but her reason for throwing you over and saying ‘Yes’ to
Sir Philip.”

“Why do you want to know?  What has it to do with the—the murder?”

“I cannot tell you until I have all the facts.”

“You will not get the lady’s name out of me.”

“But I don’t want her name,” I retorted tranquilly, “I know that
already.”

“It was not Miss Clevedon.”

“No?”

“Nor Nora Lepley.”

“No, I am sure of that.  But the name doesn’t matter.  Will you tell me
why Miss Clevedon agreed to marry Sir Philip?”

“I will tell you nothing—nothing at all.  You are a damned Paul Pry.
What business is it of yours?”

“Very well, then I—but here comes Mr. Pepster, unsuccessful as I see and
as I knew he would be.  I will not worry you any more just now, Mr.
Thoyne, but I will let you know how I go on.”

I nodded cheerfully and made my way to the side where our boat was
moored, and, indeed, I think that if I had not moved out of his way just
then he would have hit me.

In tackling a case of this sort, any case, indeed, I like to build up as
I go along and leave no blank spaces.  Very often I have spent much time
over some detail that had eluded me, and occasionally I have found that
time wasted.  But far more frequently it has happened that the fitting in
of one missing piece has straightened out much that followed.  And I like
to observe my chronology.

This question of Kitty Clevedon and her engagement to the baronet may
seem trifling and I had no certainty myself of its relative importance,
but I was quite assured in my own mind that I could make very little of
what followed until I had straightened that.  There was no reasonable
doubt that Kitty Clevedon was the mysterious lady of the quarrel—she
fitted so completely into the picture.  That both these men wanted her
was common gossip in the Dale and it seemed equally evident that her
preference was for Ronald Thoyne.  Yet, apparently, she had promised
herself to the baronet.  Why?  And why should Thoyne quarrel with him
over it?  It was her right to choose.  The only possible explanation was
that the promise had been extracted from her by some means that had not
left her a free agent.  And there was my missing piece.  Why had Kitty
Clevedon promised to marry Sir Philip?

I received my first glimmer of light from Pepster, though it was quite
unconscious on his part.

The inn at Ilbay was a delightful old place, full of odd, mysterious
corners, quaint unexpected doorways and queerly shaped rooms that were
always a step or two below or a step or two above the passage that led to
them and thus constituted traps for the unwary visitor.  Pepster and I
had a small parlour to ourselves, a queer room with five walls and a
couple of huge beams crossed on the ceiling.  It had a wide, open
fire-place but no grate, the pile of blazing logs resting on the hearth,
while the flames roared and spluttered into the darkness of a capacious
chimney.  The room had only one small window that looked out over the
jetty and the bay, and was shrouded at night by warm crimson curtains;
and one had to climb three steps in order to reach the door which opened
into the bar.

Chief among the furniture was a black oak dresser with an inscription on
the panel, reading, “John and Annie Tumm, 1671,” but all the rest was new
and neither good nor artistic.  The “pictures” consisted of the faded
photographs of a past generation, framed funeral cards and a Sunday
School certificate awarded to Elizabeth Tumm, 1874.  The black oak
dresser and that document bridged 200 years of Tumms.

“Comfortable quarters,” Mr. Pepster remarked, as he sat in a big wicker
chair toasting his toes at the fire and sipping at a glass of hot whisky.

“Very,” I agreed, being similarly situated and occupied at the other side
of the hearthrug.  There was another long silence between us, which again
Pepster broke.

“Do you know,” he said, “I am a little worried—no, that is hardly the
word—a little interested in Sir William Clevedon.”

“Yes?”

I did not add that Sir William Clevedon was just then the centre of all
my own inquiries, but I was curious to hear what he had to say about it.

“You see,” Pepster went on, “he has never been to take up his title or
the money.  The title I could understand.  There are too many of them
about in these days to make any of them really worth while.  But he
stands in also for the cash—there was no will and Billy Clevedon takes
the lot.  Where is he?”

“Do you mean that he has disappeared?”

“Well, that’s rather a long word.  But nobody seems to know where he is.”

“You have made inquiries?”

“Oh, yes.  He started a long leave on February 20th—his battalion is in
Ireland, you know—and is straightway lost.  But as to where he is—”

“His sister will know.”

“She says she doesn’t.”

“Did Miss Clevedon tell you that herself?”

“Well, no, not directly.  It was old Parfitter, the family lawyer, who
dropped a hint, so to speak.  ‘Sir William Clevedon ought to be home
looking after this business and helping to clear up the mess,’ I said to
him.  The old chap wagged his head mysteriously.  ‘Aye,’ he replied,
‘he’ll be Sir William now, of course—yes.’  I hazarded the opinion that
his long-delayed appearance was breeding rumours.  ‘For his own sake he
should come,’ I said.  The old fossil took the alarm at once.  ‘Rumours?
he asked sharply.  What rumours?’  He glared at me as if I were in some
way responsible.  ‘Oh, nothing definite,’ I said, ‘just rumours, mere
talk.’  And then he opened out and let go, said he would like to ask my
advice and so on.  In short, they didn’t know where Billy Clevedon was,
none of them knew, not even his sister.  And there it is.  He will turn
up in good time—if he hasn’t some reason for stopping away.  The question
is, has he?”

“Has he what?” I demanded.

“A good reason for stopping away.”

That was precisely the point at which I had arrived myself.




CHAPTER XVI
THE MYSTERY OF BILLY CLEVEDON


“TELL me,” I went on, “all you know about young Clevedon.  His continued
absence is certainly interesting.”

“I am not sure that I know very much about him,” Pepster said.  “You see,
he never came under my survey professionally, though according to
accounts that was rather by way of good luck than actual desert.  When
they were children, brother and sister were inseparable and were always
up to mischief of some sort.  Their parents died when they were babies
and they went to live at White Towers with old Lady Clevedon.  When she
went back to Hapforth House on the death of her husband, they went with
her and in due time were packed off to school—”

“Yes, all that is common knowledge,” I interrupted.  “But what about
Ireland?”

“He is a captain in the 2nd Peakshires and they are stationed in
Ireland.”

“But apparently he isn’t in Ireland now.”

“I don’t know that he isn’t.  He went off on leave which began on
February 20th and started for Dublin.  But whether he ever reached that
city or what he did next nobody knows.”

“They were very fond of each other, these two, I suppose.”

“Meaning the brother and sister?”

“Yes.”

“They were inseparable until their school-days came.”

I lay back in my basket chair and sent a long wraith of blue smoke
curling and winding towards the ceiling.

“There may be nothing in it,” I murmured, “and yet why does he remain
away?  Suppose Thoyne and Clevedon quarrelled over Kitty and young Billy
interfered—”

“I won’t say it is impossible,” Pepster interposed, “and if it had been a
bullet or a blow from a fist or a stick I might have looked at it
seriously, but poison is not Billy Clevedon’s line.”

“One never knows—there are no such things as impossibilities.  There is a
story behind all this.”

Pepster sat for some minutes gazing meditatively into the fire.

“There is a story behind it—yes,” he said.  “Do you really think young
Clevedon—?”

I smiled at that and shook my head.

“So far,” I said, “we have brought him to Dublin and that is a long way
from Cartordale.”

“Yes, you’re right,” Pepster agreed.  “We must bring him a bit nearer
home.  I wonder where Tulmin is.”

“You trot off to Dublin and look up young Billy,” I replied.  “I will
hang about here for a day or two and see what I can pick up.”

Ilbay, as I think I have already said, consists only of a score or so of
tiny cottages clustered together at the foot of a tall cliff to the left
of the jetty, while to the right a rough road goes upwards through what
seems to be a narrow valley running inland.  I determined upon a walk,
not that I expected to discover anything thereabout, since the presence
of the _Sunrise_ at Ilbay appeared to be due more to accident than
design.  When I had been walking about half an hour I met an old
white-headed man, who had apparently emerged from a jumble of hillocks
and rocks by the roadside where perhaps he had been resting.  He stood
leaning heavily on his stick and surveying me with bleared, age-dimmed
eyes which, however, showed no surprise nor any other interpretable
sentiment.

“Where does this road go?” I asked.

“The road—where does it go?” he repeated, mumbling his words from a mouth
that was evidently all but toothless, “wey, it goes over yonder”—and he
pointed vaguely into the grey distance.

“How far is it to the next village?”

“Oh aye, that’ll be Little Upton, a matter of seven mile maybe and maybe
twelve.”

He turned abruptly away and continued his walk towards the coast.

The road ran desolate and unfrequented, with open moorland on either
side, as grim and forbidding as open moorland can be in early spring
before winter has taken its final departure.  The little fishing hamlet
lay behind me hidden by the rising ground, while before and around me
were only illimitable open spaces within an unbroken pall of grey sky
overhead—no sign of human habitation anywhere visible.  I decided that
Ilbay was the more attractive and that I had nothing to gain by going on.

And it was just here at the loneliest and dreariest turn of the road that
I met Ronald Thoyne again coming towards me with long, swinging strides.
He stopped and faced me with a rather twisted grin.

“Still on the trail, Mr. Holt?” he said, with half a sneer: “Any
discoveries?”

“Several,” I returned cheerfully.  “I am, in short, getting on.”

“You must possess a really attractive collection of mare’s-nests,” he
retorted.

“A few—yes.  But this isn’t one.  Not but what there are still puzzles in
it.  I can well understand that when Miss Kitty Clevedon told her brother
that she had been compelled to promise to marry Sir Philip, he should
offer to set her free by threatening to mur—no, keep your hands off me,
Thoyne.  But what I haven’t yet settled is why she promised to marry Sir
Philip or what hold he had over her.  There is a story behind it that
would solve the puzzle, but I haven’t got it yet.  I shall get it though,
and if it involves young Clevedon—”

I broke off there with a short laugh, stepping back just in time to avoid
the quick, nervous blow Thoyne aimed at me with his stick.  He recovered
himself on the instant and grinned a little ruefully.

“If you think Billy Clevedon murdered Sir Philip,” he said, “you are
hopelessly out of your reckoning.  A bullet or a blow, perhaps, but not
poison.  That isn’t Billy’s way.”

Pepster, I remembered, had said the same thing and I merely duplicated my
reply.

“Oh, as for that,” I said, “one never knows.  Where is he, anyway?”

“You don’t know?”

“No,” I responded.  “I never pretend a knowledge I do not possess.  I
don’t know where he is—do you?”

“No,” he replied slowly, “I don’t.  I would give £5,000 at this moment if
I did.”

“If he is innocent,” I said, “he is a fool for stopping away, and no
less, perhaps, if he is guilty because, at least, his guilt has to be
proved.  If you are hiding him you are doing him no service.  I am not
looking for him but the police are.”

“The police!”

“Could you expect otherwise?  Here you have a title and a fortune and the
owner refuses to come and take them.  Why?”

“I wish,” he said a little wistfully, “that you and I were on the same
side of the wall.”

“Meaning by that—”

“That you were with us instead of against us.”

I paused long and my reply to that was very carefully considered.

“Mr. Thoyne,” I said, “I am not on any side—I am not for or against
anyone.  I deal only in facts.  If I convinced myself that young Clevedon
murdered Sir Philip, I should say so.  I have no reason for thinking that
he did and certainly no desire to drag him into it.  I am not fighting
you nor anybody.  You do not think young Clevedon murdered Sir Philip, or
you try not to think so, but at the back of your mind is the fear that he
did.  You are therefore prejudiced but not, as you may think, in his
favour.  Your very horror of the possibility persuades you to treat it
almost as a probability.  But I, on the other hand, consider only
evidence.  I have no personal views in favour and certainly no prejudices
against.”

“And what evidence have you?” he demanded.

“None,” I replied, “except what you and Miss Clevedon have provided and
what his absence emphasises.  If you and she had kept out of it and he
had been at Cartordale, as he should have been, no suspicion ever would
have attached to him.  At this moment the only evidence against him is
the belief you and Miss Clevedon harbour, that he—”

He paced from one side of the road to the other and then back again.

“I wish I dared tell you the whole story,” he said.  “I believe you could
help us.”

Without another word he resumed his walk and plodded steadily on without
so much as a backward glance.

But I knew now that my surmises were accurate—that Sir William Clevedon’s
continued and unexplained absence was breeding deadly and sinister fears
in the bosoms of his friends, of his sister especially.  That she was at
the bottom of Thoyne’s mysterious activities seemed clear enough.  It was
for her sake, probably at her instigation, that he had tried so hard to
envelop me in fog.  And it seemed evident that she was in possession of
knowledge which, so far, neither Pepster nor myself had penetrated.  It
would be my business to discover what that was.  I had not, however, very
long to wait.




CHAPTER XVII
MORE ABOUT BILLY CLEVEDON


THOYNE must have started off immediately for Cartordale because it was no
later than the next morning, while I was seriously considering whether I
should return home or follow Pepster to Dublin that I received a wire
from Thoyne reading: “Can you see K.C. and self at C. to-morrow?”  K.C.
was Kitty and C. was Cartordale and I was not long in making up my mind.
I wired off a prompt reply suggesting Stone Hollow as the place of
meeting.  They were awaiting me when I arrived and they had evidently
agreed that Thoyne should start the talking.

“We want to know,” he began slowly, “which side you would take if—”

He stopped there, perhaps expecting me to help him out.  But I remained
stubbornly silent.

“Suppose,” he went on, taking a sudden plunge, “you proved that—that
Clevedon did—was involved in—in the death of Sir Philip—would you take
your proof to the police?”

“I will make no promises either way,” I replied.  “You sent for me and I
am here.  Why did you invite me to come and what have I to do with it,
anyway?  You need say nothing unless you wish.  And in any case, I am not
a detective but a writer of books—”

“Then why need you tell the police?” Kitty interposed softly.

“Tell them what?” I demanded, turning suddenly upon her.

She paled a little and shrank back.

“I did not say I should tell the police,” I went on.  “Indeed, I decline
to discuss the point.  I retain absolute freedom and if you prefer to say
good-bye, well, the decision rests with you.”

“The fact is,” Thoyne blurted out, “the thing is so much a nightmare to
us, that we must settle it one way or the other.  It would be better
almost to know the worst than to rest in continual doubt.”

“But why come to me?”

“Because we think you can help us.”

“I am not a detective: I take no fees: I go my own way: I make no
promises.”

“We accept your conditions,” Thoyne said, with a glance at Kitty who
nodded an affirmative.

The story they told me was certainly interesting and what they omitted at
the first telling, I managed to elicit by subsequent questioning.

Sir Philip Clevedon, it seemed, had given Kitty to understand that her
brother was in some danger, though he had been judiciously vague,
depending more upon hints, suggestions and innuendo than on definite
statements.  He was easily able to startle an impressionable girl where a
man or an older woman might have been able to extract the truth from him
by a process of cross-examination.

Only one thing stood out clear, that Billy was in some kind of a mess
from which it would cost far more money than she possessed to extricate
him, and that Sir Philip would find the cash if she consented to marry
him, which she did.  Sir Philip’s action could only be justified by the
old adage that “All’s fair in love and war.”  Undoubtedly he was very
much in love with her which may be urged as his justification.  “I have
wealth and a title and I am not an old man,” he said to her, “and you
have youth and beauty; it is not an unequal bargain.”  That was true
enough.  Marriages far less appropriate occur every day.  But nothing
would have induced Miss Kitty Clevedon to consent except the thought that
by her sacrifice she was saving her brother from some disaster, the
details of which she did not understand.

Then came a very difficult task, to tell Ronald Thoyne that their little
romance was ended and that she was going to marry Sir Philip Clevedon.
Thoyne seems to have written straight off to Billy Clevedon, in which he
was wise, and then went and had a row with Sir Philip, which was foolish.

Billy Clevedon as soon as he received Thoyne’s letter seems to have
rushed off to Midlington where he summoned both Thoyne and Kitty to meet
him.  There under pressure from him, not unassisted perhaps by Thoyne,
she told the story of her interview with Sir Philip.

“The swine!” Billy cried.  “The unbuttered swine!  I’ll wring his filthy
neck for him.  You’ll not marry him, Kitty, I’ll do for him first.”

He was very angry and swore mightily, but they paid little heed to his
wrath.  It was characteristic of him to be a trifle over-emphatic in his
expressions.

“I asked him to lend me some money, it is true,” he said, “but it wasn’t
as much as he told you and it didn’t matter in that way.  I was in a hole
but that was nothing new and there was no disgrace attached to it.  But
I’ll settle it—you leave to me.  Kiss Ronny Thoyne and make it up with
him.”

Billy took two or three turns up and down the room, spitting out the
words as he went.

“It’s blackmail,” he continued.  “But of course it’s nonsense.  He can’t
make her if—does she _want_ to marry him?”

“She does not,” Thoyne told him promptly.

“No, I should think not.  He’s twice her age and more.  But I see his
game—he must be an infernal cad.  I didn’t suspect that of him.  He is
cold and selfish but I did not think he was that sort of reptile.  I knew
nothing of this, Thoyne—you believe that, don’t you.  I am a mixture like
most men but I am not that sort.”

He resumed his restless pacing to and fro.

“I had no idea of it, none at all,” he repeated.  He did not tell them
what the trouble was nor why he had wanted the money.

“I would have lent—” Thoyne was beginning, but Billy airily dismissed the
suggestion.

“I’m all right for a bit and I’ll make the blasted baronet shell out
somehow,” he said.  “Don’t you worry.  But I’m busy now—an engagement I
must meet.  I’ll see you later on.  Meanwhile you cut clear of the
swine.”

“Aren’t you coming to Cartordale?” Kitty asked him.

“Presently,” he told them, “but not to-night.  Thoyne, you take her
home.”

Thoyne did and left her at Hapforth House early in the evening.

The next day—the fatal 23rd—passed without any word from Billy.  We know
what happened on that day—Thoyne’s quarrel with the baronet and Kitty’s
visit to White Towers in the evening.  But the latter did not return
directly to Hapforth House.  She ran her little two-seater into
Midlington only some twelve miles distant and called at the hotel at
which she had met her brother on the previous day.  But he was not there.
He had paid his bill, packed his bag and departed.

She returned to Cartordale but her car broke down on the way and she
pushed it to the side of the road and tried a short cut to Hapforth
House, missing her way in the fog and landing in my study.  The next day
came the tragic story of Sir Philip’s death and though both she and
Thoyne affected to believe that Billy could have had nothing to do with
it, they were nevertheless terribly anxious and alarmed, the more as the
days went on and nothing was heard of or from him.

“And now let me reduce it to definite dates,” I said.  “You will check me
if I am wrong.  You left your brother at the ‘King’s Head’ in Midlington
on the afternoon of February 22nd.  He left the hotel on the morning of
February 23rd.  Sir Philip Clevedon died on the night of the 23rd.”

They nodded a joint affirmative.

“In other words, and to put it in its most brutal form, he left
Midlington and came secretly to Cartordale, having first obtained some
poison, secured an entrance to White Towers, poisoned Sir Philip’s
whisky, disappeared—”

“But I don’t believe—” Kitty began.

“No,” I said, “of course you don’t, but that summary of possibilities
represents your fears.”

“Why doesn’t he show up?” Thoyne interposed.

“Yes,” I agreed, “that is precisely the question we have to answer.
Could he have got into White Towers without being seen? You and he lived
there as children and I have been told that you were veritable little
imps of mischief.  All sorts of things would be possible in connection
with a big and ancient mansion like White Towers.”

Kitty looked woefully distressed and turned with white-faced, pathetic
pleading to Thoyne.

“I should tell everything, Kitty, dear,” he said.

“There is a secret way into White Towers which we discovered years ago,”
she replied.  “We agreed to keep it to ourselves and I have never told
anyone.  I don’t think anyone knows of it except my brother and myself.”

I regarded her thoughtfully for a moment or two.

“Well, now,” I said, “you know of that secret way—could you have entered
White Towers and placed the poison in that bottle without being seen?”

“Surely, you don’t think I—”

“Could you?”

“Yes, but—”

“Well, now, look,” I said, importing a sudden harshness into my tones,
“you hated the thought of marrying Sir Philip and his death would mean
your release, besides which it would mean wealth to your brother and a
happy issue from his financial—”

“But the suggestion is infamous, intolerable!” Thoyne cried.

“Don’t be a fool,” I advised him.  “I am not accusing Miss Clevedon; I am
summarising the case against her brother.  The first essential is to
establish a motive and there you have one twice over—Sir Philip’s death
would release his sister from a hateful marriage and it would—he would
succeed to the dead man’s title and money.  I am being purposely brutal
because I want to put it at its worst.  He comes to Midlington, a few
miles from Cartordale on the day before the tragedy, he leaves Midlington
for some unknown destination, which may, however, have been Cartordale, a
few hours before the murder, he knows a secret way into White Towers, and
he has a dual motive for assassinating Sir Philip.  You have summed all
this up in your own minds, haven’t you?  It has been a dark shadow in
your thoughts ever since that tragic day.  Isn’t that so?”

There was a long silence.

“Yes,” Thoyne said at length, “you are perfectly right.  You have
described exactly what, as I said before, has been a ceaseless nightmare
to us.  And you have omitted the main difficulty.  Why doesn’t he come to
Cartordale?”

“But, now,” I went on, “let us take the other side.  There is no evidence
of any sort that Clevedon ever had any prussic acid in his possession.
Or is there?”

“We know of none,” Thoyne assented eagerly.

“And you?” I asked, turning to Kitty.

“No,” she said, shaking her head, “I never heard of any.”

“And then there is the possibility that when he left Midlington he never
came to Cartordale at all.  That is where our investigation begins.
Where did he go when he left Midlington?  Let us return to your interview
in the ‘King’s Head.’  At what time did it take place?”

“In the afternoon,” Thoyne responded.  “It would be three o’clock when we
left the ‘King’s Head.’”

“And did he give you no indication of the nature of his engagement?”

“Nothing at all.”

“Did he say when he was coming to Cartordale?”

“No, I don’t think he mentioned it—at all events, nothing definite.”

“Well, now, let me put it like this.  Suppose that after the meeting at
Midlington there had been no tragedy, would your brother’s prolonged
absence have worried you?”

“Oh, no,” Kitty replied.  “One never knew what Billy was going to do and
frequently he wasn’t sure himself.  He would just do it.”

“Did you know,” I asked, “that your brother was going on a long leave.
It is rather a wonder that Thoyne’s letter ever reached him, but
evidently it did.  The fact that he had obtained leave before the receipt
of that letter suggests some contemplated purpose—the visit to Midlington
was only a break in the journey.”

“Yes,” Thoyne said, “we have thought all that out.  But why hasn’t he
come back when—it is unbelievable that he should have seen nothing—no
account of the—”

“Unlikely, but not impossible,” I observed.  “He may have met with an
accident, for example.”

“We should have heard of it,” Thoyne said, shaking his head.

“Well, anyway,” I returned, as cheerfully as I could, “suppose we accord
him the right every Briton has under the law, of being regarded as
innocent until he is proved guilty.  Is he, by the way, interested, do
you know, in any—lady?”

“In about a hundred, I should think,” Thoyne returned.

“Yes, I dare say he would be.  At his age one is.  But I mean any special
lady?”

But they could give me no help in that.




CHAPTER XVIII
THE ANONYMOUS LETTERS


THE first thing I had to settle was as regards the entrance to White
Towers of which Kitty Clevedon had spoken.  We had to pick up Billy
Clevedon’s tracks after he left Midlington, and if he really had gone to
White Towers, it would probably be by that route.  At all events there
was absolutely no evidence he had been seen at any of the usual
entrances.  Kitty agreed to guide us, and told us to meet her the
following morning at the main gates to White Towers; and she advised us
also to put on some old clothes as we should have to creep part of the
way on hands and knees.

We were prompt to time and Kitty took us through the park to some very
rough ground at the rear of the house, though not far away from it, and
there she showed us a narrow cleft in a mass of rock and told us that was
the entrance.  It was partly choked by a jumble of fallen boulders
overgrown with the rough vegetation of the moor, probably rank enough at
some periods of the year, but lying now for the most part dry and dead.
I looked for any sign of recent entrance, especially for footmarks; but
the ground was too hard and revealed nothing, though the rubbish at the
entrance seemed to have some appearance of being trampled.  I took out my
flash lamp and pushed my way into the opening, followed by the others,
though it was a very tight fit for Thoyne.

A wall of rock confronted us at about four feet, but Kitty bade us turn
to the left and there I saw an opening low down which seemed to lead to a
passage that descended somewhere into a mass of pitch darkness.  We had
to get on hands and knees and crawl along so for quite a long distance
through a low, narrow tunnel that appeared to be for the most part
natural, though here and there, it had evidently been widened at least,
if not entirely pierced by human agency.

Presently, after going steadily downwards for many yards, it went forward
on the level, and was there a little higher and wider; but at no point
did it enable us to stand erect.  It was a case of creeping all the way.
I understood now why Kitty had advised the oldest possible clothing.  It
meant ruin to the knees of one’s trousers.  And then the tunnel ended
abruptly against a wall of solid rock; but Kitty cried out that there was
an iron ring close to my right hand, and that I must take hold of it and
pull hard.

I obeyed; there was a grinding and groaning as of rusty machinery and
then the rock in front swung back and we found ourselves in an open
chamber with walls and floor of natural rock, but a roof of worked stone
formed of square flags, all save one supported by pillars Of rusty iron.
There were nine stone flags, each six feet by four, and eight pillars,
and the dimensions of the cellar or cave were thus eighteen feet by
twelve.  The height would probably be about eight feet.  We could at
least stand upright.  I took my flash lamp and carefully examined every
corner, not, as it turned out, quite unremuneratively.  I dropped my hat
and then stooped to pick it up again—and with it something I had noticed
lying there.

My find was a hairpin still fresh and bright and with no sign of rust
about it.

If Kitty Clevedon had passed that way I should have supposed that she had
dropped it.  Ladies shed things of that sort as they go.  But she had
assured us that she had not been near the spot; in which case a knowledge
of the existence of the passage, supposed to be confined to Kitty and her
brother, was shared by someone else, and that a woman.

“Which is the way out?” I asked, saying nothing of the hairpin which, at
a favourable opportunity, I thrust into my waistcoat pocket.

Kitty pointed to the one unsupported flagstone and told us that it worked
on a swivel and could be pushed up if one could reach it, whereupon
Thoyne swarmed up the nearest pillar and tried to move the stone but
failed, though whether because the axle was rusty or because there was
some fastening on the other side we could not say.  Thoyne selected
another pillar and once more gave the stone a push, but with no more
success than before.  From his position, clinging monkey-like to the
pillar, he could exert very little leverage.  He slid down again and
suggested that I should mount his shoulders so as to be right under the
stone, a manœuvre which was promptly attempted with satisfactory results.

The stone moved, though slowly and stubbornly and with much creaking and,
swinging myself up through the opening thus disclosed, I found myself in
a cellar full of a miscellaneous collection of rubbish, baskets, boxes,
barrels, chairs, broken furniture of all sorts, books and papers and so
on.  I fixed the stone in position, because left to itself it would
simply have swung back again into its place, and then I passed down to
the others a short ladder which I found lying against one of the walls of
the cellar.

When the others had joined me, Kitty explained that we were under the
older portion of White Towers, the East Wing, which was partly in ruins
and uninhabited.

I was easily able to explain the tunnel—I had seen something of the sort
in other old houses.  It was simply a way of escape for those inside if
enemies became too pressing.  Peakshire had played a strenuous part in
the Civil War, most of the big men being on the side of the King and
White Towers, the older part of which dated back beyond Elizabeth, had
probably been a Royalist stronghold and meeting place.  If enemies, in
the shape of Cromwell’s men, came along, the Cavaliers would only have to
creep through the tunnel in order to escape the Roundheads.  Or it may
have been constructed in even earlier days for the benefit of Roman
Catholic refugees.

That, however, was mere speculation, though not without interest.  For
many years evidently it had been unused and forgotten until it was
rediscovered by the two children who had kept it a delightful secret to
themselves and had, no doubt, brought it into many exciting games.  The
question for us, however, was—had Clevedon used it recently, and if so,
for what purpose? It was certainly interesting and possibly significant
that somebody evidently had been that way not so very long before.  But
Clevedon at all events did not use hairpins.

“There seems to be no evidence that your brother ever came this way,” I
said, as we stood looking round us.  “True, the vegetation at the
entrance to that passage bore some appearance of having been trampled
down, though that may have been the weather or—”

“I did that,” Thoyne broke in quickly.  “Kitty told me about this before
I saw you and I went to look for myself.”

I glanced at him casually.  It was quite likely he spoke the truth.

“Did you get as far as this?” I asked.

“Oh, no, I didn’t get beyond the entrance.”

“And you think you trampled that brushwood?”

“I—it is possible I may have done.”

“You did not notice its condition before—?”

“No, I didn’t, I wasn’t looking for that.  I see you still distrust me,”
he added quickly, “but I am perfectly honest about it.  I am sorry I
came.”

“Oh, it doesn’t matter,” I returned carelessly.  “If you hadn’t been
there, the signs might have proved that Clevedon hadn’t either, whereas
now it is an open question.  But the fact that somebody may have been
there is of minor importance unless there is accompanying evidence that
the somebody was Clevedon himself.  Of course, there is the fact that he
alone knew of the entrance—he and one other.  I suppose you haven’t been
here lately?”

I turned suddenly on Kitty Clevedon and rapped out the question with the
abruptness of a pistol shot.  She started a little, then shook her head.

“Not since I was a child,” she replied.

“Can we get out of this without returning by that passage?” I asked.

“Yes, through that door is a flight of stone steps leading to what used
to be the kitchen of the old White Abbey.”

“We’ll go that way,” I decided.

When I had parted from my two companions, with a promise to see them
again later in the day, or, possibly on the following morning, I went
into the post office and from my waistcoat pocket produced a hairpin.

“Have you any of that sort in stock?” I asked, then, noting her look of
surprise, I added, “I hope you won’t give me away if I tell you that I
use them to clean my pipe.  They are the best things I know for that.”

“Well, I didn’t suppose you wanted them for your hair,” she said pertly.
“Yes, we have plenty of that sort in stock.  Indeed, I don’t think we
have any others.”

“Then I suppose every lady in the Dale uses them,” I remarked jestingly.

“Most of them,” she agreed.  “I do—see, here is one”—and she extracted a
specimen from her own abundant head-covering.  “A few may get some others
when they go into Midlington, but most come here for them.  Lady Clevedon
had three boxes only a week ago.”

“Lady Clevedon,” I echoed, “then they must be an aristocratic brand.
Does her ladyship do her own shopping?”

“Oh, they are good enough.  No, Lady Clevedon didn’t come for them—Miss
Kitty fetched them.  She said they were for Lady Clevedon, but she took
some for herself too, so I suppose she wears them.”

Evidently the hairpin was not going to be of much use to me, at all
events as a means of identification.  There would be too many of them
about the Dale for that.

When I reached Stone Hollow again I found Detective Pepster awaiting me,
looking, for him, a little disconsolate.

“Well,” was my greeting, “how has Fate treated you?”

“No luck, none at all,” Pepster said gloomily.  “I am just back from
Dublin with no news.  Clevedon went to Dublin on February 20th, but there
all trace of him ended.  I could learn nothing.”

“I have been more fortunate than you,” I returned smilingly.  “I can
carry him a bit farther than that.  He was in Midlington on February 22nd
and left there on the morning of the 23rd.”

“Do you _know_ that?”

“Yes, for certain.”

“Did he go to Cartordale—to White Towers?”

“I can’t say for that.”

“And where is he now?”

“Nobody knows.”

“And his sister—?”

“Is as ignorant as you or I.”

“She is bluffing?”

“No.”

“She really doesn’t know where he is?”

“She really doesn’t.”

“But—anyway we must find him.”

“I am busy at it now.”

“Any traces?”

“None.”

“It is a weird development.  Did he do it?  Is he keeping out of the way
because—?”

“It is impossible to say.  We know that he came to Midlington, but that
he came to Cartordale or ever had any prussic acid in his possession—”

“Yes, you’re right.  We must bring him a little nearer than Midlington.
But if he didn’t do it, or, for the matter of that, if he did, he is a
fool for keeping out of the way.”

Which at least was a self-evident proposition.

“And now that we have disposed of Billy Clevedon for the time being,”
Pepster went on, “tell me what you think of this.”

With great deliberation he took a letter-case from his pocket and from it
extracted a sheet of paper which he handed over to me.  It was lined
paper, torn evidently from a notebook, and on it was printed in capitals:

                             YOU ARE ON THE WRONG
                            TRAIL ALTOGETHER.  IF
                             YOU WANT TO KNOW WHO
                             KILLED CLEVEDON KEEP
                             YOUR EYE ON THOYNE.

“That is No. 1,” Pepster said.  “Here is No. 2.”

He handed me a second document, but this time it was a plain white paper
on which the ink had run rather badly, though the letters were quite
legible.  It was, too, much shorter, simply reading:

                          THOYNE MURDERED CLEVEDON.

“Anonymous letters by some crank, who thinks he has made a discovery,” I
remarked.

“Yes,” Pepster agreed, “but here is No. 3.”

The third communication was written in red ink on a buff-coloured slip of
paper, such as Government offices use, and read:

                             YOU ARE MISSING YOUR
                            LIFE’S CHANCE.  ARREST
                          THOYNE AND I WILL PRODUCE
                                THE EVIDENCE.
                                  TRUST ME.

“Were they addressed to you personally?”

“Yes, and to my private address.”

“Apparently somebody who knows you.”

“Looks like it.”

“Come by post?”

“Yes.”

“Postmark?”

“Two Cartordale, the third Midlington.  Now, is the writer merely a
crank, or has he something up his sleeve?”

“If you do nothing he’ll probably write again and may be more explicit.”

“Well, of course, Thoyne is very deep in this thing, but there is nothing
definite connecting him with the murder—is there?”

But I merely shook my head vaguely at that.  In this curious case one
never knew what a day might bring forth.  The changes and developments
were as rapid as a cinema show.




CHAPTER XIX
THE HAIRPIN CLUE


IN point of fact the first real clue I secured in this case consisted of
that hairpin I found on the floor of the lower cellar, though its bearing
on the mystery was not at first apparent.  But it introduced me to a new
set of circumstances and took me a step or two on the road I wished to
travel.  Until then I had been wandering round and round in a circle.  My
first thought was that the hairpin belonged to Kitty Clevedon and that
she had deliberately deceived me when she declared that she had not
visited the cellar prior to conducting Thoyne and myself thither.  My
suspicion was that she had been there and that she had found and removed
some traces of her brother—that she was, in fact, still playing a game of
bluff; though I did not believe that this time Thoyne was in it.  She was
hoodwinking him as well as myself.

I set a watch on the cellar beneath the ruined wing, making myself a
hiding-place by clearing out some of the furniture in one corner and
restacking it so as to leave a narrow passage in which I could conceal
myself if I wished.  And I set little traps of a very simple description,
but sufficient to show me on my next visit that somebody had been there
in my absence and had penetrated to the lower chamber by way of the
swinging flagstone; but I was more than astonished when during one of my
periods, behind my little rampart, I discovered that the visitor was not
Kitty Clevedon at all, but—Nora Lepley.

In all my imaginings my thoughts had never once turned to her.  She came
in without faltering or hesitation, as one who knew her way intimately,
and swung open the trap-door, which she propped up by means of a board.
Then, taking the short ladder which I have already mentioned, and which I
knew by means of my little arrangements had been used during my absence,
she let it down, and by it descended to the lower cellar.

As soon as her head had disappeared I crept to the opening on hands and
knees and saw her lift out a rough block of stone which concealed a small
opening not unlike a natural cupboard.  Then she took a small flash-lamp
from the pocket of her big apron and sent a beam of light into the hollow
place, but situated as I was I could not see whether she put anything in
or took something out.  For a minute or two she stood pondering almost as
if she were trying to make up her mind on some doubtful point, then with
a quick sigh she replaced the lamp in her pocket and restored the stone.

I flitted back swiftly and noiselessly to my own corner whence I watched
her return from the lower depths, close down the stone and lay the ladder
along the wall, all with sedate, unhurried movements, as one who had no
reason to fear interruption.  When she was quite safely away, and I
followed her to make sure, I went in my turn into the lower cellar to
investigate that little cupboard.  It was evidently her own private safe,
containing all sorts of oddments a young girl might hide away when she
found too many prying eyes at home—a bundle of letters, an envelope
containing £20 in Treasury notes, some oddments of jewellery and so on.

But what most attracted my attention, because they were in such curious
contrast with the rest of the collection, were a drinking-glass and a
small phial wrapped in white paper.  I picked the latter up and noticed a
number of figures lightly pencilled on the wrapper arranged in double
column thus:

     9.37      3.17
    11.21      4.28
    12.18      5.19
     1.34      6.37

What they could mean I could not imagine, nor did I worry very long about
them.  I removed the wrapper, to find inside a small phial labelled
“Pemberton’s Drops,” which were described as “a safe remedy for headache,
sleeplessness, and all nerve troubles.”  The dose was forty drops to be
taken in water or other liquid.  I turned the bottle over and saw a
circular, red label, not much larger than a sixpence, on which was
printed in small, white letters “Grainger, Midlington”—obviously the
chemist from whom Nora Lepley had purchased her sleeping drug.  I could
well understand that she did not want her friends to know that she took
an hypnotic composition of this character.

Almost without knowing what I was doing I removed the cork, and then with
a sudden jerk realised what it was I had stumbled upon.  I smelt the
unmistakable odour of bitter almonds.  Whatever the phial had contained
when Grainger of Midlington sold it to Nora Lepley, it was nearly full
now of a strong solution of hydrocyanic acid.  I took up the glass, but
it was perfectly dry and odourless, despite which I had no doubt that it
had been the vehicle by which Sir Philip Clevedon had taken the poison.

The real art and science of the detective lies in building up one fact
upon another until the edifice begins to assume intelligible shape.  I am
far from saying that a Sherlock Holmes is impossible.  On the contrary, I
have met people possessed as he was of a sense of intuition almost as
keen and certain as seeing and hearing in ordinary men.  But they are
few.  The average detective, though he may indulge in theories, depends
really on facts and is wise not to wander very far from them.  And he
will find, if he is sufficiently practised and astute, that facts breed
facts, and that a clue, even if it does not lead to the required
solution, does often produce other clues that continue the chain
unbroken.  A “clue” that leads nowhere never was anything but a false
clue from the beginning.  And a detective is largely dependent upon what
ordinary folk describe as luck or chance.  His skill consists in making
use of chance and in missing nothing that luck brings him.

The police have, in addition to the natural astuteness of individuals,
the assistance of a singularly complete and effective organisation that
enables them to push their inquiries far and wide and, when they have
settled on their man, to weave round him a net from which escape is all
but impossible.  By telegraph and telephone, the police of the whole
country can be put on the alert, descriptions can be circulated in a few
minutes, information conveyed and facts gathered until the story is
complete.  The English police work under some difficulty since the
methods of questioning and even bullying that are legal in France and are
frequently permitted in America are rigidly forbidden here.  English law
really does try to live up to the theory that a man is innocent until he
is proved guilty and that he must not be trapped into any unwary
admission.  I do not mean to say that the English police invariably abide
by the strict letter of the law or always observe it in spirit.  There
are occasions when it is worth while to take risks.  But, generally
speaking, the law as it is and as it is administered aids the criminal
and hampers the police, despite which, however, the latter are
wonderfully successful.

Still, I can hear someone saying, many crimes go unpunished, many
criminals remain undiscovered.  True, but one has to remember that many
criminals are known against whom there is no clear proof.  The conviction
of a wrong-doer is a matter of evidence not of belief.  I am acquainted
with two persons, one a man very well known in business circles, the
other a lady of great charm and important position, who, I am quite sure,
are murderers.  The police are equally aware of the fact.  But so
skilfully have the criminals covered every trace that anything like proof
would be wholly impossible.

And, again, it must not be forgotten that the criminal may be a person of
first-class education, alert mentally, intrepid, with money, position and
influence to aid him, and that he not only prepared the ground before the
crime without hindrance or suspicion but was able to use his skill and
resource in confusing the pursuit after it.  A burglar, jewel thief, or
the like, may be a person of the Bill Sikes variety, but he is quite as
likely to be a University man with a profession and income and a wide
circle of friends.

When brains are pitted against brains it is a straight fight and the best
brains win quite irrespective of right or morality.  The pursuit’s most
valuable and useful asset lies in the fact that most criminals sooner or
later make mistakes, and crime as a rule leaves no margin for error.  The
alert detective misses nothing of that sort and loses no opportunity his
opponent may concede to him.  But when all is said, facts remain the
detective’s chief stock-in-trade, and it is the connected chain of
established facts that eventually leads him to the solution required and
the person wanted.

So far, for example, in this Clevedon case I had been groping in the
dark, hanging grimly on to the few facts I had; and my blunderings and
stumblings had led me to that little phial of poison in Nora Lepley’s
secret hiding-place.  I could not see yet the full bearing of that
discovery, but it was a new fact which I had reached simply by following
my nose.

Of course, I made a special journey into Midlington to look up Grainger,
the chemist, who, I learnt, had been in business in the city about
thirty-five years, was widely known, and very highly respected.  I made a
small purchase, and noticed that there were several bottles of
Pemberton’s Drops in the large glass case that was full of various
proprietary medicines.

“Is that stuff any use for sleeplessness?” I asked, pointing to one of
the bottles.

“I don’t know,” he replied.  “It seems fairly popular but I have never
tried it.”

“Is it dangerous to take?”

“I shouldn’t think so,” he replied, “though personally I should say that
all hypnotic drugs are better left alone.  The preparation is a secret.
I do notice that people who take them come back for them, which seems to
suggest that they are effective.”

I went straight to Peakborough and interviewed Mr. Pepster.

“I’ve something I want you to do,” I said to him.

“Good!  Is it important?”

“I think so.  I fancy things are beginning to move.”

“I’m glad to hear it,” he retorted grimly.  “As for me, I’m absolutely
fed up.  The case is getting on my nerves.  But what is it?”

“I want to know all there is to be known about Nora Lepley.”

“Yes?”

“And about Grainger, a Midlington chemist.”

“But what connection is there—?”

“I don’t know yet.  I want to know.  Probably there is none.  But I have
traced prussic acid to Nora Lepley—”

“Gad!”

“And in a bottle that came from Grainger’s shop.”

“Good Lord!”

“Yes, it’s a queer development, isn’t it?”

“But—”

“I know absolutely nothing more than I have told you.”

Pepster nodded thoughtfully, then touched a bell.

“What is the next train for Midlington?” he asked of the police clerk who
answered his summons.




CHAPTER XX
STILL MORE ABOUT BILLY CLEVEDON


AND now I come to a very pretty and pleasant little adventure which has
its own place in the sequence of events.  Only part of it came under my
own immediate observation; the rest I had to piece together by adroit
questioning and the aid of a little imagination.

It began with Kitty Clevedon, who, as she was crossing the park that
partly surrounds Hapforth House, was a little startled to see an
aeroplane coming rapidly to earth.  It alighted only about sixty yards
away, and a young man jumped out and came towards her.

“Hallo! Kitty Clevedon, by all that’s lucky!” he cried.  “I thought it
was, which was why I gave the order to come down.”

“Jimmy! but you are a stranger,” Kitty returned smilingly, as they shook
hands.  “Are you still in the Air Service?  I thought you had been de—”

“Oh, yes, this is my own.  I do it for fun now.  Care to step aboard the
old bus and see what it is like?”

He helped her in and then gave some signal she did not comprehend, and up
they went.

“What are you doing?” Kitty demanded.  “You have no right to take—”

“None at all,” he admitted cheerfully.  “But it would be a dull world if
we only did what we have a right to do, wouldn’t it?”

“You must let me get out, Jimmy,” she said, stamping her foot.

“I’m not stopping you,” he retorted, with a laugh, “but it’s a longish
step down to Mother Earth—about 600 feet, I should judge.  Would you like
to have a look out?  You are not frightened, are you?  Have you ever been
up before?”

“Yes, twice,” she replied.  “No, I’m not frightened—of the aeroplane.”

“Well, you’re not frightened of me, anyway,” he said.  “I’m fierce, but
not frightful.”

He pulled back a leathern flap, disclosing an opening, through which he
thrust his head.  “You ought to go in for flying, Kitty,” he went on.
“It’s the real sport—there’s nothing like it.  Motoring is tame—and I
tell you what, I’ve a good mind to carry you off to see old Billy and
butt in on his honeymoon.”

“Billy!” she cried, turning on him suddenly.  “Do you mean my brother?”

“Here, steady on!” he said.  “You’ll have the old bus over if you jolt us
like that.”

“You must put me down at once,” she went on.  “I must see Mr. Holt and
Mr. Thoyne.  Do you hear?  At once.”

Jimmy Trevor saw that she was serious, and immediately gave the order to
descend.

“I’m awfully sorry, Kitty,” he said.  “I was only—it was only a bit of a
joke.  I would like to apologise, if you—”

“Don’t be an idiot,” Kitty replied sharply.  “Only be quick, and don’t
talk until we are out.”

“But you will forgive—”

“Oh, yes, yes; and now _don’t_ talk.  Let me think.”

They made a safe landing, and Jimmy helped Kitty to alight.

“Now tell me,” she demanded, turning on him suddenly, “do you know where
my brother is?

“Why, yes,” he replied, evidently a little mystified at her manner.

“And—and did you say—honeymoon?  Is he—married?”

“Good Lord! didn’t you know?” he shouted.  “Have I put my beastly number
nine foot into it again?  He didn’t tell me it was a secret.  I was his
best man, you know, and saw them off to Jersey for their honeymoon.  But
he said nothing about keeping it secret.  Didn’t you know?”

“Will you come with me to see Mr. Holt?” Kitty asked.

“I will go anywhere you say, anywhere at once,” Jimmy replied.

Kitty started off immediately in the direction of the village, Jimmy
Trevor keeping pace with long strides, muttering apologies to her and
imprecations on himself at intervals.  As they passed through the big
gates into the main road they met Thoyne, who glanced at her companion a
little questioningly.  Jimmy Trevor was a very personable youth, and
jealousy is easily aroused.

“Oh, Ronald, this is Mr. Trevor,” Kitty said.  “He—he knows where—where
Billy is.”

“The devil he does!” Thoyne cried.  “And where is he?”

“He is”—she began to laugh a little hysterically, then pulled herself
up—“on his—his honeymoon.”

“His honeymoon!”

Thoyne stood stock still in the middle of the road and gazed, first at
Kitty and then at Jimmy Trevor, who grinned appreciatively.

“It seems to be news,” the latter said dryly.  “Didn’t you know?  Am I
making the first announcement?  I seem to have created a sensation by
posing as an amateur _Morning Post_.  Why shouldn’t Billy get married if
he wants?  And she was a deuce of a nice girl, too!”

“But—the murder—!” Thoyne stammered.

“Murder?  What murder?  We are talking about a marriage, not a murder.”

“The murder of Sir Philip Clevedon,” Thoyne replied rather angrily.  “You
must have heard of it.”

“Not a word,” Jimmy responded.  “I’ve been abroad, and only returned to
England two days ago.  Sir Philip Clevedon—why, that’s—then Billy is Sir
William and doesn’t know it.”

“We must tell Mr. Holt,” Kitty broke in, and Thoyne nodded his agreement.

And thus it was that they came to me with their story.  I listened to
them in silence and then put a few questions.

“Had Clevedon arranged that you should be his best man?” I asked Trevor.

“Not at all,” he said, “nothing of the sort.  I met him quite by accident
on Midlington station, and—”

“What date was that?”

“It was February 23rd.”

“Are you sure of that?”

“Yes, it was February 23rd right enough, because that was the day I had
to be in London.  It had been fixed up with the lawyer chaps, Finns and
Tregarty, who did all my uncle’s business.  I went down from Blankester
by a train that stops five minutes at Midlington—beastly hole it is, too!
Looking out, I saw Billy on the platform.  We were at school together,
you know, and then in France—good pals.  He pulled me out of a damned
mess once—a good story that, which I’ll tell you some day.  He’s one of
the very best, is Billy.  I shouted out to him, ‘Billy, Billy,’ and he
came up.  ‘Good egg, Jimmy,’ he said, ‘I was getting a bit fed up with my
own company.’  There was a vacant corner seat, and he took it and we
travelled to London together.”

“What time would that be?” I interrupted.

“Let’s see; it was the 11.23 at Midlington, and 4.7 in London.  We put up
at the Terminus Hotel, both of us, had dinner there, and went to see
_Jimson’s Joy Ride_ at the Lyric.  Then we trotted round to one or two
places we know of and got back to the Terminus at 1 a.m., and so to bed,
as What’s-his-name would say.”

“If we could make absolutely sure of the date—” I began.

“The date is right enough,” Jimmy Trevor replied.  “You don’t come into a
little wad of fifteen thousand pounds every day, and that date is in red
letters in my almanac.  But ask the lawyers—they’ll have it down—or try
the Terminus Hotel.  Our names will be in the register.”

“Well,” I returned, “you went to see _Jimson’s Joy Ride_, then to bed.
Next morning—?”

“‘I’ve got to go to Jersey!’ Billy said to me, ‘to get married.  The
young lady is there, waiting for me—suppose you come with me and be best
man.’  I had four weeks or so empty and plenty of money, so I said ‘Right
ho!’  The lawyers had come down with some coin and didn’t want me for a
bit until they’d straightened things some more.  And then Billy got a
telegram, ‘Lost my luggage; bring some clothes—Elsie.’  So off he went to
a large shop and interviewed the manageress.  ‘I want some clothes for a
young lady,’ he said, ‘all sorts of clothes: nightdresses, stockings,
whatever young ladies usually wear; plenty of them, and some frocks—and
you see that young lady over there with the red hair?’  The manageress
cast her optics round.  ‘Yes, I see her,’ she said, ‘but you’d better not
let her hear you describe her hair as red.’  Old Billy was a bit put out.
‘Sorry,’ he said, ‘but she is about the build.  What’ll fit her will fit
the other.’  It was all easily arranged—anything is easy to arrange, you
know, when you have the money to pay for it, and Billy seemed to have
plenty.  He came out of the shop carrying a brand new suit-case
containing about eighty pounds’ worth of female garments.  When he told
me about it I said he was a silly Juggins; that what the telegram had
meant was that he was to go to her flat and tell her maid to pack another
box; which is what she told him when we got to Jersey.  ‘We’ll do both,’
Billy said, and we went to the flat and got another lot of feminine
mysteries.  So we got to Jersey, and I saw him tied up and then went on
to St. Malo.  That’s how I never heard anything of Sir Philip Clevedon,
and I bet Billy’s heard nothing, either.”

“And who is the—the girl?” Kitty demanded, quite naturally a little angry
when she recollected the suspense and misery she had endured through her
brother’s unexplained absence.

“She’s Elsie MacFarren,” Jimmy replied.

I knew her quite well.  Miss Elsie MacFarren was a youthful American
actress who had come across with a boisterous Yankee comedy, entitled
_Chick Tottle’s Turnout_.  The play itself had been a failure, but Elsie
had been a success, and had remained here to earn one of the big salaries
the British theatre-loving public willingly pays to those who take its
fancy.  She was not only pretty, but clever; and invitations to return to
America—invitations heavily larded with dollars—were cabled to her at
short intervals.  But she stayed here proof against all temptations.

“And now,” I added briskly, “the next thing is to wire Sir William
Clevedon to return immediately.  He must come back.  His presence here
will dispel a lot of suspicion, and the story of his romance will
counteract some ugly rumours.  We will meet them in London.”

When I told Pepster the story I thought he would never stop laughing.

“This case,” he said, “is the absolute limit.”

“You’ll come with us to London?”

“I wouldn’t miss it for a fortune.”

We duly met the honeymoon couple at Paddington.

“Where the hell have you been?” Thoyne demanded harshly.

“Where?” Billy echoed.  “On my honeymoon.  There is Mrs. Billy Clevedon,
and—”

“No,” I interrupted suavely; “Lady Clevedon.”

He swung round facing me.

“Who the hell are you, and what the devil do you mean by that?” he asked.

“Sir Philip Clevedon is dead,” I replied quietly.

He stood glaring at me for a moment or two, as if he thought I was mad,
then, reading confirmation in the faces around him, he turned to his
wife.

“Do you hear that, Elsie?” he shouted.  “Sir Philip is dead, and I am Sir
William, and you are My Lady, and, yes, by gad! I’ve got pots of money.
By Jove! yes.  Poor old Philip—he was a bit of a—but there, he’s dead.
What a life it is!”

“The fact is,” I went on, cutting short his excitement, “that Sir Philip
Clevedon was murdered, and”—I paused a moment or two so that I might get
the full effect—“there is a warrant out for your arrest.”

“Murdered!” he echoed.  “Arrest!”

“Well,” Pepster interrupted slowly.  “I wouldn’t say arrest.  The police
are interested—you see, your absence seemed to require—”

“And where the devil do you come into the picture?” the new Sir William
demanded.

“I—oh, I am the police,” Pepster retorted.

“But, surely,” Kitty said haltingly, “Mr. Trevor has proved—Billy was in
London on the night of the 23rd—an alibi—”

“There can be no alibi in a poison case,” I returned gravely.  “The crime
is committed, not when the victim dies but when the poison is
placed—wherever it is placed.  For example, if I were to put prussic acid
now in some whisky which you were to drink next Sunday, I might go off to
Paris, or be on the high seas far off enough, anyway, when you drink the
whisky, but I should still be guilty of—”

“Is that the story?” Billy broke in.  “Did I put prussic acid in Philip’s
whisky?  Come, we’ll get back to Cartordale.  I am Sir William and White
Towers belongs to me.  I’m going to take possession.  And if anyone
thinks I killed Sir Philip, well, let them prove it and be damned to
them.”

He broke off with an angry laugh and stood facing us.  His lovely little
bride thrust her hand through his arm.

“Yes,” she said, in that musical voice of hers that had charmed huge
crowds on two continents, “let them prove it and—be damned to them!”

But her laugh was one of real amusement.  Lady Clevedon was looking
forward to enjoying life and had no objection to a sensation or two.
Possibly she had found the honeymoon just a trifle slow.  Anyway, she
made a charming picture of loyalty and confidence as she stood arm-in-arm
with her husband facing those who were practically accusing him of
murder.




CHAPTER XXI
WHY TULMIN BLACKMAILED CLEVEDON


SIR WILLIAM and Lady Clevedon settled down in Cartordale and very quickly
made themselves popular with their neighbours.  Billy himself was of a
buoyant and friendly disposition, and even if he had been far less
genial, Lady Clevedon would have pulled him through.  I never met a
sunnier person than she was, and if she had designedly set out to
dissipate any possible suspicion that may have gathered round her
husband, she could not have gone a better way about it.

But if she had any such intent she did not show it.  They both acted as
if they took it calmly for granted that any idea of Billy’s participation
in the tragedy was futile nonsense.  Nor did they hesitate to discuss it,
and apparently accepted my interposition as a matter of course.  No doubt
Thoyne and Kitty had explained to them my part in the story.  As they
became more and more immersed in their plans for refurnishing White
Towers and in various social activities, the mystery dropped more and
more into the background.  That was all the better for me.  The necessity
of consulting other folk and especially of explaining, or of concealing,
because it more frequently amounts to that, is always something of a
nuisance when one is engaged in delicate investigations.

But I had a little passage with Lady Clevedon the elder that was not
entirely without entertainment.  I was passing the big gates of Hapforth
House just as she emerged.  I fancy she had seen me from the windows of
the lodge and had come out with the intention of intercepting me.  She
stood with both hands on her stick surveying me with a dry smile.

“So, Mr. Detective, you haven’t yet discovered who killed Philip
Clevedon,” she said.

“I don’t know that I haven’t,” I returned.  “But knowledge isn’t proof
and there are libel laws to be watched.”

“That is an easy way of getting out of it,” she cried mockingly.  “A
detective ought—”

“But I am not a detective,” I interrupted.

“No, you are not, that’s true enough,” she agreed grimly, as she turned
abruptly and began walking towards Hapforth House.

When I reached Stone Hollow again, I found waiting for me a little
wizened man with indeterminate features and a general air of
dilapidation, though his eyes under shaggy grey brows were bright and
piercing.

“Hullo, Stillman!” I cried, “you at last, is it?  I have been expecting
you for some time, but I suppose it wasn’t an easy job.  Have you got
it?”

Stillman sat for a few minutes gazing into the fire.  I knew his habit
well and did not attempt to hurry him.  He was a very methodical person,
with a way of arranging his thoughts and choosing his words that was
sometimes a little irritating to those wanting to hear what he had to
say.  I, knowing him well, merely waited until he was ready.

“You told me to find out—” he began and then paused, glancing at me as if
in inquiry.

“Why Tulmin was blackmailing Sir Philip Clevedon,” I replied promptly.
“Tulmin had some hold over Clevedon—what was it?”

“Precisely.”

I had “discovered” Stillman some years before, and had made much use of
him.  What his past was I did not know, though I suspected that it would
not bear a too detailed investigation.  He was certainly an expert
burglar, as I had more than once put to the test; he could copy a
signature with the fidelity of the camera; he could empty a man’s pocket
with the dexterity of a professional; he knew every possible trick with
the cards; he seemed, in short, to be an expert in every form of roguery,
and yet, as far as I knew, he had never engaged the attention of the
police.  If he had been a rogue, he had covered his tracks with singular
skill.

But he may only have been, like myself, a student of roguery.  I was an
expert pickpocket, an accomplished burglar, could open a safe by
listening, and would guarantee to copy any man’s signature so as to
deceive even himself; and more than once during my investigations I had
found my accomplishments extremely useful.  I should have made a very
dangerous criminal, but I kept within the law, and I was willing to give
Stillman also the full benefit of the doubt.  As a sleuth, I never met
his equal; in the patient, persistent, unwearying, remorseless pursuit of
an individual, in turning a person, man or woman, inside out, in
penetrating the most sullen reserve and uncovering the secrets of the
past he was unapproachable.

I had the first taste of his quality in the Strongeley case.  He brought
me some information and I happened to remark that I must have Robert
Strongeley shadowed.  “Try me,” he said, and as I was just then too
busily occupied to do it myself, and had nobody else whom I could put on,
I agreed.  He followed Strongeley half round the world, and wormed out
secrets that even Strongeley himself had forgotten.

Since then I had many times employed him, and he always promptly answered
my call, possibly because I paid well, but even more, I think, because my
cases were nearly always interesting.  How he lived or what he did in the
unemployed intervals I cannot say and never inquired.  A lack of
curiosity is often a form of wisdom.

I had placed Tulmin in his hands.  “This man,” I said, “has been
blackmailing the late Sir Philip Clevedon and I want to know why.”

And there I left it.  Stillman, I knew, would sooner or later bring me
the information I required.

“I went down to Ilbay,” Stillman said, “but I could not get on board the
yacht.  But chance helped me there.  Mr. Thoyne came off the ship
bringing Tulmin with him.  The latter went to London and so did I.
Whether Thoyne had given Tulmin an address, or whether Tulmin went there
on his own, I didn’t know, but I followed him and obtained a room in the
same house.  Later I learnt that the house was one in which Tulmin had
lodged when he first came over from America and before he went to
Cartordale.”

“America?” I interposed.  “Did Thoyne know him in America?”

“That is the story,” Stillman replied, with a quiet grin.
“Thoyne—Clevedon—Tulmin—all from America.  Tulmin had some money of his
own, but Thoyne was making him a fairly generous allowance, is still, for
that matter.  But to begin at the beginning.  When Sir Philip
Clevedon—er—died, Mr. Thoyne offered Tulmin a job as steward on his
yacht.”

“Did Tulmin say why the offer was made?”

“No—no special reason, anyway.  He was out of a job and Thoyne wanted a
steward.  But it is a little curious that Mr. Thoyne offered him about
twice the usual pay if he would go then and there at once.”

I smiled appreciatively.  It was, indeed, a little curious,

“Though, if he hadn’t done that,” Stillman went on, “Tulmin probably
wouldn’t have gone, because he wasn’t short of money.  At all events he
went.  But hardly had he got to know his way about the yacht when a
telegram came.  ‘I want you to go to London and wait for me there,’ Mr.
Thoyne said to him.  And that seems to be the whole story.”

“Did Tulmin see the telegram?”

“No, Mr. Thoyne burnt that when he had read it.”

That, of course, was Kitty Clevedon’s telegram warning Thoyne of my
threatened visit.

“It was lucky Tulmin went to London—what should you have done if he
hadn’t?” I asked, with some little curiosity.

“Oh, I should have found a way,” Stillman replied.  “Perhaps an
opportunity of boarding the yacht would have presented itself, or I might
have learnt its destination and met it there.  I should have found Tulmin
some way.  But that telegram eased matters considerably.  I am much
obliged to whoever sent it.”

In all his confidences Thoyne had never told me why he took Tulmin away,
nor had he given me any indication that he knew where he was.

“As to Tulmin,” Stillman went on, “I had rather a lot of trouble with
him.  He wasn’t exactly an easy subject.  But I got there in time.  He is
too fond of his whisky to keep many secrets.  And I have spent a lot of
money in whisky.  At to-day’s prices, you know, whisky does cost money.
But I had to drag it out of him almost a word at a time and piece it
together as best I could.  But I think I have it straight now.”

The story was very simple.  As Stillman had said, the three men had all
hailed from America where Clevedon, known then as Calcott had been an
object of much attention from the police.  Tulmin himself was a “crook,”
though of rather smaller dimensions than the other, and they had
occasionally worked together.  Then Calcott disappeared and it was given
out that he was dead.

It was some time after Calcott’s ending that Tulmin, finding the police
in America inconveniently eager to make his acquaintance, crossed over to
England, which offered at once a refuge and a fresh field for his
operations.  It was in London that he met Sir Philip Clevedon as the
latter was going from a taxi towards the dignified entrance to his club.
They faced each other at the foot of the stone steps.

“Calcott!” Tulmin cried, with a welcoming grin.

“I beg your pardon,” Sir Philip replied, with the icy composure that
characterised him.

“I said ‘Calcott,’” Tulmin retorted, in no way perturbed.

“Yes, I heard you, but I don’t know what it means,” Sir Philip made
answer.

“It’s a clever bluff,” Tulmin responded.  “And I’ve heard of doubles, of
course.  But do you know that Felter is in London”—Felter was head of the
Chicago detective bureau, and a man whom the late Calcott had good reason
to fear—“on some stunt or other and looking as foxy as ever?  It gave me
a turn of the shivers when I ran up against him suddenly in Oxford
Street.  I wonder if you could persuade him to believe in doubles or
whether he might not want to see that scar on your left knee.  He put it
there, you know, didn’t he, and could identify it.  Anyway, I am looking
for a job as confidential man—valet, secretary—something soft and clean
and well-paid.  I am tired of being a ‘crook.’”

What Tulmin actually would have done, or even could have done had
Clevedon bluffed it out, I don’t know.  But apparently the latter funked
the risk and the end of it was that Tulmin was installed at White Towers
as Sir Philip Clevedon’s confidential valet.  That, in brief, was the
story Stillman told me, nor was it difficult to supply the missing lines.
Clevedon had never expected to succeed to the title since there were
several lives in front of him, but they disappeared one by one, and
accordingly he shed his Calcott existence like a discarded hat.  He was
accepted on this side without question or demur, and indeed, there seems
to have been no doubt regarding his identity.  The whole story was
extremely interesting, but I did not see that so far it helped much in
the solution of my own particular mystery.  I was a good deal more
concerned with Thoyne’s part in the play.

“The hold Tulmin had over Clevedon seems clear enough,” I observed
reflectively.  “But I don’t quite see how he managed to hook Thoyne on
unless Thoyne was also—”

“No, there is nothing against Mr. Thoyne,” Stillman responded promptly
and decisively.  “He is paying Tulmin to keep out of the way, but I think
that is simply so that there may be no scandal—no public identification
of Clevedon with Calcott.”

“Then he knew that Clevedon was Calcott?”

“Yes, Tulmin says so.”

“I wonder how he knew.”

“I am not sure about that, but Tulmin was positive that he did know, and
that he was keeping Tulmin out of the way so as to keep the name of
Clevedon out of the mess.  Isn’t Thoyne marrying into the Clevedon
family?  Anyway,” Stillman added, with a queer chuckle, “Tulmin doesn’t
expect him to go on paying for ever.  ‘As long as it lasts,’ in his own
phrase.  The hold isn’t a very strong one; and I don’t think myself
Tulmin will turn nasty when the money stops.  His own record isn’t so
clean that he need court publicity.”

“I am not quite clear about it yet,” I remarked.  “You said there was no
special reason assigned for Thoyne’s action in making Tulmin his steward
at double pay, but now—”

“Oh, yes, I was not quite clear.  Mr. Thoyne did not give Tulmin any
reason when he offered him the job.  It was afterwards that he explained
what he had in mind—to make sure that nothing got out regarding Calcott.
Indeed, I am not quite sure that he actually explained in so many words.
But he knew about Calcott—Tulmin is sure of that—and perhaps Tulmin
jumped to the conclusion that that was his motive.”

“Yes, I dare say it would puzzle Tulmin to know why Thoyne should appear
so friendly.”

I made up my mind at all events that I would interview Tulmin myself.
Not that I had any specific aim in view.  But it would at least be useful
to learn all I could regarding Clevedon’s past.  Stillman’s story had
opened new possibilities.  If Tulmin could recognise Clevedon as Calcott,
others might have done so.  It might easily be that one would have to go
back into those dead years to solve the mystery of the Clevedon tragedy.
And among those possibilities was Thoyne.  He may have known Clevedon in
America and have had good reason, quite apart from their rivalry for
Kitty Clevedon’s affections, to desire his death.

At all events I determined that I would have an interview with Ronald
Thoyne before many hours were out.  I felt that I had a legitimate
grievance against him.  He had known more about Tulmin and Clevedon than
he had ever told me and though he had invited me to investigate the
mystery, he had given me only a half-confidence.  I could at least teach
him a lesson on that, I thought rather grimly, besides which, somewhere
at the back of my mind was a queer suspicion that Thoyne had deliberately
thrown me off the scent, telling me, with every appearance of frankness,
much that did not matter, but remaining stubbornly reticent on several
things that did.




CHAPTER XXII
MORE ANONYMOUS LETTERS


I SENT Stillman back to keep an eye on Tulmin until I could myself
interview him and then set myself to arrange a meeting with Thoyne.  He
was staying at White Towers and I had no difficulty in finding him.

“Hallo!” he cried.  “You look very serious, Holt.  What is the matter?
Have you made a fresh discovery?”

“Yes,” I said, “I have.”

“Well, cheer up.  I can’t say you look pleased about it.”

“Thoyne,” I responded, looking him straight in the face.  “Did you ever
hear the name of Calcott?”

He sent me a quick glance that was partly, I think, surprise but was not
entirely devoid of wrath.  The name had evidently no very pleasant sound
in his ears.

“You see,” I went on, interpreting his half-instinctive movement in my
own way, “you have given me a lot of quite unnecessary trouble.  Had you
been frank with me—”

“I was frank on everything that mattered,” he said sullenly.

“You thought the fact that Clevedon had been an American crook known as
Calcott whom you had met in Chicago—”

“That’s a lie, anyway.”

“You needn’t get excited about it,” I rejoined equably.

“Excited, the devil!” he cried.  “I am not excited.  I’m as calm as you
are.”

“Then perhaps you would like to tell me the whole story.”

“What story?”

“The story of Calcott, the crook, and what you knew about him in
Chicago.”

“I did not know him in Chicago.”

He sat himself down and ran his fingers two or three times through his
thick hair.

“You are rather a marvel,” he said, with a smile that was just a little
rueful.  “How you get these things sorted out amazes me.  First one and
then another, you get them all straightened and leave no loose ends.  No,
I never knew Calcott, though I’d heard of him.  But I had known Tulmin in
Chicago.  I caught him looting my baggage—it was in the car outside my
house and he was just moving off with a bag.  I caught him and thrashed
him and let him go.  I recognised him when I met him here, and he knew me
also.  I didn’t interfere.  He seemed to be living an honest life as far
as I could gather and I didn’t want to rob the poor devil of his chance.
It was he who told me about Calcott.  You see, after they quarrelled—”

“Quarrelled!” I repeated.  “Did—but I must have the whole story now.
There is more in this than I thought.  If there was a quarrel—”

“Yes, what of it?”

Thoyne spoke a little impatiently as if he were tired of the whole
subject and merely wanted to bury it.

“Well, a quarrel—is sometimes a motive for murder—”

“I always thought Tulmin did it,” he responded quietly.  “But I’ll tell
you all I know and then perhaps you can leave me alone.  Damn Clevedon
and damn Tulmin.  Why should I be worried about their affairs in this
fashion? I didn’t ask to be mixed up in it, did I?  Of course, I did it
to help Kitty, and would do it all again, and more for her.  And all
through the infernal foolery of this secret marriage.  Why couldn’t
Clevedon tell his sister he was going to be married?  The whole thing’s
been a nightmare to me and I’m dead sick of it.  I didn’t murder Clevedon
and I don’t know who did, unless it was Tulmin.  If you would find the
assassin and tie him up I might get some peace.”

“But it was you who took Tulmin away and hid him,” I replied.

“Yes, I know it was—what of it?”

“But if you thought he was the murderer—?”

“Of course I thought he was the murderer.  You don’t think I should have
involved an innocent man, do you?  Yes, I persuaded Tulmin to go away in
order to keep suspicion off Billy Clevedon.  Kitty was terrified and I
was a bit anxious myself.”

“And as to this quarrel?” I interposed.

“I don’t know the rights of that, except that Tulmin had wanted more
money than Clevedon was willing to pay.  Kitty had told me, you know,
that Clevedon had wanted her to marry him and that she intended to
consent.  We were not formally engaged then, though it was all but fixed
up between us.  But the word lay with her, of course, and I was trying to
be as philosophical as I could over my dismissal when one night Tulmin
came to me with a queer, mixed yarn, of which at first I could make
nothing.  ‘What have you come to me for?’ I said.  ‘I’ve come to sell you
a secret,’ he replied.  My first idea was to give the swine a good sound
kicking and pack him off.  ‘I could tell you something about Sir Philip
that’ll make Miss Kitty impossible,’ he added, and at that I waited.

“I dare say you’ll blame me, but I don’t pretend to be any better than
anybody else, and besides, he’d stolen her from me.  So I listened.  He
told me he knew something against Clevedon, who had been paying him to
keep silence.  Now he wanted to go back to America—Tulmin did, I mean—and
had asked Clevedon for a lump sum, and Clevedon had threatened to shoot
him.  That is the best thing I ever heard about Clevedon.  Tulmin is a
little rat, for whom shooting is a lot too good.  But Clevedon had stolen
my woman and I didn’t mean to lose any chance that came.  I said he could
have the money if I found the secret worth it.  He wanted it in advance,
but I told him he’d have it my way or no way.  And then he told me what
Clevedon had been across the water.

“At first I took him to mean that Clevedon was an impostor and had no
right to the title and estates, but it seems I was wrong there.  I went
off to Clevedon next day and we had a right royal rumpus about it—that
was the interview described at the inquest.  I didn’t mention Tulmin’s
name—the little rat had made that a condition.  ‘You can’t deny it,’ I
said to Clevedon.  ‘I come from Chicago, you know.  I recognised you
months ago.’  He seemed impressed and it was rather a good lie.  ‘But I
didn’t interfere,’ I went on, ‘until you tried to steal my woman, and we
Americans are always ready to fight for our women.’  That housekeeper
woman didn’t hear all that, apparently.  Then Clevedon denied the whole
story and we began to get angry.”

“I see,” I interposed, “and when you said you’d find a way of making him
give Miss Clevedon up, you meant—”

“I meant I would get the Chicago police on his trail.”

“Did you know that Clevedon gave Tulmin a cheque for £500 the day before
the murder?”

“No, did he?  Well, evidently Tulmin didn’t think it enough.”

“What day was it Tulmin came to see you?”

“It was that same morning, February 23rd.”

“Clevedon gave Tulmin £500, which was less than Tulmin wanted, so Tulmin
double-crossed Clevedon and came to you.”

“That seems like it.”

“It opens all sorts of fresh avenues,” I remarked.

“Don’t say that,” Thoyne murmured, with a groan.  “I was hoping it would
end the case.  I never want to be mixed up in another murder mystery.  It
is the very deuce.”

“Suppose Clevedon, having quarrelled with Tulmin, and knowing you also
had penetrated his secret—”

“Do you mean it was suicide?” Thoyne cried, his whole face lighting up.
“If you could prove that I would—I would give you a cheque for ten
thousand pounds.  It would settle such a lot, wouldn’t it?  Suicide, yes,
I think after all it must be suicide.”

He gazed eagerly at my unresponsive face, then shrugged his shoulders a
little angrily.

“Yes,” I replied slowly, “but then, what of the hatpin?”

His face fell at that.

“Clevedon certainly didn’t stab himself with a hatpin,” I added.  “But
you may as well finish the story,” I went on, “and tell me why you
spirited Tulmin away.”

“Oh, that’s quite simple,” he replied.  “Kitty was worried about her
brother, whose absence puzzled her, as it did the rest of us.  So I
offered Tulmin a job, and he jumped at it.”

“Did you tell him—”

“Of course not, I’m not a fool.”

“And was that why you offered to buy my house?”

He laughed at the recollection of that particular interview.

“I dare say you thought me an awful idiot,” he said.

“And now you’ve told me everything.”

“Yes,” he responded, “everything.”

The truth or otherwise of which will appear in due course.

On my way out old Lady Clevedon met me, grimmer and more caustic than
ever.

“Any discoveries, Mr. Detective?” she cried.  “But I suppose I need not
ask.  Have you seen the _Midlington Courier_ to-day?  It has an
interesting article on the Clevedon Case—I forget how many weeks gone and
nothing done.  It wants to know if the police—”

“But I have nothing to do with the police,” I interrupted smilingly.

Pepster, whom I found awaiting me at Stone Hollow, began on the newspaper
article as soon as we met.

“What do you think of that?” he cried, waving the cutting as if it had
been a flag.  “Have you read it?  ‘Unfortunately, we cannot congratulate
the police, who seem to have been waiting, like the famous Micawber, for
something to turn up.’  What do you think of it?”

“Oh, newspaper writers are very fond of dragging Mr. Micawber in,” I
replied.  “He is overworked.”

“Damn Micawber!”

“Yes,” I rejoined, with a quiet laugh.  “I should feel like that if I
belonged to the police.”

“Well, you’re in the case, anyway,” Pepster said tartly.  “And that
reminds me.  I have some news for you.  At least, I think I have.  But
with you one never knows.  Quite likely you have it all entered up
already.  Did you ever hear of Mary Grainger?”

“No, who is she?”

“Thank God, I’ve got a novelty at last.  She’s daughter to Grainger, the
Midlington chemist.  Did you know he had a daughter?”

“No, does she live at home?”

“She doesn’t _live_ anywhere, she’s dead.”

“Yes?”

“Did you know that?”

I shook my head to express a negative.

“Then it really is one to me,” he said, with an air of great
satisfaction.

“Yes,” I agreed, “it is one to you if it means anything.  I take it there
is more behind.  The decease of a young lady I never met is hardly a
matter for excitement in itself.”

“Yes, there is more behind,” he said slowly, nodding his head.  “There
is, for instance, Nora Lepley behind.  She and Mary Grainger both
attended the High School in Midlington and have been for years
inseparable friends.  Nora frequently spent weeks at a time with the
Graingers at Midlington and apparently had the run of the shop.  She goes
frequently to see the old man even now.  She was there one day last week.
Now suppose—well, Nora Lepley could have got the prussic acid that way.”

“It is certainly one to you,” I agreed, slowly and thoughtfully.

“I have something else,” Pepster went on, taking out his wallet.

“More anonymous letters?” I queried.

“Yes, two.”

He handed them across to me.  One was a fragment of blue paper, on which
was printed in red ink:

                              THOYNE IS STILL AT
                                LIBERTY.  WHY?

The other was a picture postcard—a view of the Midlington Parish
Church—and the message, in pencil, ran:

                            WHY ARE YOU PROTECTING
                          THOYNE.  HAS HE PAID YOU?

“It wasn’t sent open like that,” Pepster explained.  “It came in an
envelope.  It’s a popular card, printed by the hundred and sold by every
stationer in Midlington.  Somebody seems to have a rare grudge against
Thoyne.”

“Does he know anything of these?”

“I haven’t told him.”

“Nor of the others?”

“No”

“It might be a good idea—just to see how he took it.”

“If there was anything in them it might put him on his guard.”

I did not press the matter further just then, though I could not help
wondering what story there was behind this queer series.

“Put a personal in the _Courier_,” I suggested, “inviting the writer of
communications to the Peakborough police to send his address
confidentially.”

“I did.”

“No result?”

“A personal in reply which ran, ‘Take him first and then I will.’  You
know he said in one of the other letters that if we would arrest Thoyne
he would supply the evidence.”

“No, you can’t do that,” I agreed.  “And now,” I added, “if you’ll sit
still and not interrupt I’ll tell you a long story.”

And I proceeded to recount the past history of Sir Philip Clevedon and
Tulmin, and Thoyne’s connection with it.  Pepster heard me to the end in
silence.

“This case,” he said, when I had finished, “is the very devil.  I’m half
inclined to think Tulmin did it after all.  At any rate there are three
of them in it—Tulmin, Thoyne and Nora Lepley, but which is which—or are
they all three in it?”

It was a possibility that had occurred to me more than once.




CHAPTER XXIII
TULMIN’S QUEER STORY


DURING my journey to London I devoted careful and prolonged thought to
the difficult problem of Mr. Ronald Thoyne, whose exact place in the
story I had by no means satisfactorily determined.  He had played a very
curious game all through, and though there was an explanation in his
anxiety to help Kitty Clevedon and relieve her anxiety regarding her
brother, the facts as I knew them would equally have fitted a desire to
throw pursuers off his own scent.

I did not attach undue importance to the series of anonymous letters
received by Pepster, and yet, in the light of Thoyne’s queer and
frequently mysterious actions, I did not feel inclined entirely to ignore
them.  I was fully aware that so far I had not found the key to the
mystery.  Did Thoyne hold that or was it Nora Lepley?  Thoyne was an
American and, as far as I had been able to gather, came of a wealthy and
highly respectable family in Chicago.  There was absolutely nothing of
any sort against him and yet it seemed queer that he had settled down in
England and had apparently no intention of returning to America.  Even
Kitty Clevedon was not sufficient to account for that.  She would
certainly have gone with him had he asked her.  Even if he had not
actually encompassed Clevedon’s death, was he privy to it? Then I
remembered suddenly—the first time it had occurred to me—what the Vicar’s
wife had told me.  Thoyne, when he first went to Cartordale, had lodged
at Lepley’s farm and gossip had coupled his name with Nora’s.  What was
there in that?  Little, probably; perhaps nothing.

And so I maundered on, my thought flitting from one thing to another and
back again, but with no tangible or coherent result.  I could not fit
Thoyne into the picture anyhow.  If he had set out to fool me he had
succeeded, for all I had tripped him up so many times.  That again was
curious.  Practically everything he had told me had been dragged out of
him.  Very little had come from him voluntarily.  He became confidential
enough when he knew that I knew, but he offered nothing.

I walked to the address in Bloomsbury Stillman had given me.  He met me
on the doorstep, and taking me into his room made a few minor alterations
in my appearance, not sufficient to merit the word disguise, but enough
to prevent Tulmin from recognising me.  I had never spoken to him, but I
had been on the jury when he was a witness and he might know me again.

And then I gave Stillman another mission—Grainger, Mary Grainger, Nora
Lepley.

“Anything particular?” Stillman asked.

“No,” I said.  “Everything.  I don’t know what it will lead to.  It is
absolutely new ground.”

I told him all I knew and left him to it.

When Tulmin came in Stillman introduced me as a friend of his named
Spencer and for a time we talked on all sorts of topics until Stillman
mentioned quite casually that Tulmin had come from Cartordale.

“Did you know Sir Philip Clevedon?” I asked, “the man who was poisoned?
A cousin of mine was housekeeper there, name of Halfleet.”

“Mrs. Halfleet, yes, she is the housekeeper,” Tulmin said.

“She thinks he committed suicide,” I observed.

“Nay, she’s wrong there,” Tulmin replied, “he wasn’t the suicide sort.”

“Tulmin,” I said suddenly, “why, I remember that name.  You were his
secretary, weren’t you, or something of the sort.”

“Yes, that’s right, something of the sort,” Tulmin responded, with a
grin.

I was a little taken aback at his almost good-humoured frankness.  His
was certainly not the attitude of a man who stood in fear of pursuit.

“But surely,” I said, “it’s you the police are looking for.”

“Me?  What should they want with me?” he growled, sitting suddenly
upright.

“I don’t know,” I replied.  “I’m not very well up in the case.  It was my
cousin that told me.  ‘I believe, myself, it was suicide,’ she said, ‘but
the police think differently, and they’re looking for Tulmin, who ran
away.’”

He rose from his seat and thumped the table angrily, though his face grew
a little white.  Stillman, who had been watching him carefully, poured
out a glass of whisky and handed it to him.  Tulmin gulped it down at a
draught and seemed to recover his nerve.

“But didn’t you run away?” I asked.

“No, I didn’t, damn you!  Who said I ran away?”

“But you disappeared.”

“Mr. Thoyne knew where I was.”

“Who is Mr. Thoyne?” I asked.  “My cousin said nothing about him.  Is he
suspected also?”

“Why,” he responded, with a queer laugh, “you might guess again and get
farther off.”

“Do you mean he did it?” I asked.

“I don’t mean anything,” he replied cautiously, and then he added, “It
was Mr. Thoyne who sent me here.”

“But why did he do that?” I demanded.  “So that the police would—think
things?”

“If you didn’t do it you were a fool to quit,” Stillman said.

“Yes, I was a fool, that’s plain enough,” Tulmin muttered, with an
unpleasant sort of laugh.  “Thoyne’s had me for a fool.”

He reached out his hand for some more whisky, which Stillman supplied.

“I see now,” Tulmin went on, almost as if talking to himself, “that was
why Thoyne offered me a job and was so anxious to get me away.  Yes, and
then he almost pushed me off that blasted yacht of his, and told me to
come to London and wait for him.  I see his game.  He wanted me out of
the way, so they’d think—but I didn’t do it, though I know who did.”

I did not allow so much as an eyelid to quiver.  If Tulmin stopped
talking now I might never get him again.

“It was Thoyne himself—the swine,” he went on.  “I saw him give Clevedon
the dope that killed him—in a white packet.  ‘You’ll sleep all right
after that,’ he said, and laughed.  He wasn’t far out.  He put Clevedon
to sleep sound enough.”

“Did you tell Thoyne what you saw?” I asked.  “When did he give it to
him?”

“Why, Clevedon called on him that night.  They’d quarrelled over a girl,
and Clevedon went to—I don’t know what he went for.”

“Went where?”

“To see Thoyne—at Thoyne’s house.  I followed him.  I couldn’t hear all
they said, but I could see everything.”

“And you didn’t tell Thoyne what you saw?”

“No, I didn’t.”

“But, why?”

“Oh, well, I was keeping that,” he said, with a maudlin grin.  “I thought
it might come in useful—later on.  But Thoyne did it right enough.”

“Do you know what was in the packet?”

“No.”

“Then you can’t possibly say—”

“They both wanted the same girl—I know that—and Thoyne took his chance.
He came to the door with Clevedon.  I was hid in the bushes.  ‘Take a
dose of that stuff, and it’ll put you to sleep,’ Thoyne said.  And, by
God, it did!  Suicide, no.  He didn’t commit suicide.  Thoyne killed
him.”

And then he flung his arms over the table and fell into a stupid, drunken
sleep.

I glanced at Stillman, who shook his head.

“No jury would take his evidence,” he remarked.

I wondered for a moment or two if Tulmin had written the anonymous
letters.  But then I remembered that they had borne the Midlington
postmark.

“Has he been away from London at all?” I asked.

“No.”

“Not even for a day?”

“No.”

Of course, he might have got somebody in Midlington to post them for him,
but I doubted it.  I did not think he had written them.  His accusation
merely came in queer corroboration of their statements.  But anonymous
letters and a drunken gutter-thief from Chicago.  I should have to get a
better case against Thoyne than that!

I stayed three or four days in London, having a good deal of business
with publishers to transact, and for that period I left Cartordale and
its concerns entirely alone.  It was a visit from Stillman that plunged
me once again into the thick of the mystery.

“It’s only a preliminary report,” he said, “but as far as it goes it is
simple enough.  Miss Grainger died at Long Burminster, a small village in
the Midlands, about sixty miles from London.  That was some months ago,
and she left behind her a little baby girl, who has been adopted by the
people—themselves childless—with whom Miss Grainger herself had been
lodging.  She wrote to her father, it seems, but he refused to visit her
or to have anything to do with her child—said they could send it to the
workhouse, which, however, they refused to do.”

I remarked that this seemed a very good and generous action on their
part, to which Stillman replied with his characteristic, unbelieving
grin, that they were being well paid for it.

“By whom—Grainger?” I asked.

“No,” Stillman replied.  “Not by Grainger, but by Mr. Ronald Thoyne.”

“Thoyne!” I exclaimed.  “Thoyne again!  It seems to be always Thoyne.
But what had he to do with Mary Grainger?”

Stillman went on with his story.  He reminded me, in the first place,
that Mary Grainger and Nora Lepley had been close friends, and that
Thoyne had lodged at Lepley’s farm when he first went to Cartordale.  He
might have met her there; though he believed—he had not yet actually
verified this—that Thoyne had been a patient in the hospital at Bristol
where Mary Grainger and Nora Lepley had both served, the former as nurse,
the latter as V.A.D.

“And is the suggestion, then, that Thoyne is the father of this baby?” I
demanded.

But Stillman knew nothing as to that; it might be so, or it might not,
but it was quite certain that Thoyne was paying for the child now.  And
there was another interesting point he had forgotten to mention.  When
Mary Grainger went to Long Burminster she called herself Mrs. Blewshaw,
and wore a wedding ring, which, in fact, was buried with her.

It was when she was ill and knew she could not recover, that Mary had
written to her father, who had replied with a violent refusal either to
see her or to forgive her.  Happily, Mary herself had never seen that
letter.  She died peacefully and painlessly before it came.

Mrs. Greentree had shown it to Ronald Thoyne, who bade her sit down and
write a letter from his dictation, in which she informed the Midlington
chemist that his daughter was dead, and asked what wishes he had to
express regarding the child.  The old man replied in person, but had
proved a rather grim, forbidding and unpleasant visitor.  He had refused
to attend the funeral, or to pay for it, and would not even see the
little girl; whereupon Thoyne had come to the rescue, settling all the
bills, and arranging that Mrs. Greentree should take charge of the child
for the ridiculously generous payment of two pounds a week.

I whistled when I heard that, and Stillman nodded his head.

“It seems a lot, doesn’t it?” he murmured.  “If she wasn’t his daughter,
I mean.”

The first lesson I learnt when I began my studies in crime and
criminology—because crime is not merely the commission of an unlawful
deed, but is of itself a complicated psychological problem—was to
distrust the obvious.  Crime itself is sub-normal, super-normal,
extra-normal, anything but normal; and the obvious is always likely to be
untrue because there are always people interested in arranging it.

For my part, I never believe what I see or hear until I have also proved
it; and, accordingly, though it would seem to one’s ordinary intelligence
a certainty that Ronald Thoyne was the father of Mary Grainger’s
baby—possibly Mary Grainger’s husband, possibly not; but certainly in
some intimate relationship with the dead girl and the living child—I did
not take anything for granted.  I had yet to learn the other side of the
story.  Not that I had any reason to suppose that Thoyne was better than
his fellows, or that such an entanglement was impossible to him.  He
certainly had never occurred to me as a saint.

The story seemed fairly clear, though, of course, I lacked many details.
Thoyne had met Mary Grainger either at the hospital in Bristol, or while
he was lodging at Lepley’s farm, and then, after an interval regarding
which we had no information, the girl was found to be living at his
expense, and when she died he paid for the maintenance of her child.
Added to all this was the other ascertained fact that Nora Lepley, in
whose possession I had discovered the phial of prussic acid, was Mary
Grainger’s dearest and most intimate friend.

But, then, what had all that to do with the death of Sir Philip Clevedon?
Was there any connection at all between the two stories?  Certainly I
could discern none of even the most shadowy character, and yet I somehow
felt that Thoyne was the pivot on which the whole business swung, though
so far the key which would open the door of the mystery remained out of
reach.  It was interesting, too, to recollect that Thoyne’s serious
courtship of Kitty Clevedon had not begun until Mary Grainger was safely
out of the way—interesting, but whether or not it had any significance, I
could not say.

I told Stillman to continue his inquiries, and myself returned to
Cartordale.




CHAPTER XXIV
THE WRATH OF RONALD THOYNE


“I WANT you to come with me to Midlington,” I said to Pepster, whom I met
soon after I reached home.  “I am going to try a long shot, and I would
like you to be there.”

“A long shot at what?” he demanded.

“Well,” I replied, “I don’t quite know.  I can’t quite reckon it up yet,
but it seems worth trying, anyway.”

Pepster nodded, and waited for me to continue.

“Those anonymous letters,” I went on.  “We are going to see their
writer.”

“Oh.  And who may he be?”

“Grainger, the chemist.”

“But that’s—well, anyway, I’m ready.  Shall we go now?”

We found Mr. Grainger behind the counter of his shop, but I was just in
time to see a skirt flashing through the door that opened into the little
room behind.  That it was Nora Lepley I felt sure, though I did not see
the face.

“Mr. Grainger,” I began, “we have come to see you about those letters you
wrote to the police.”

He shrank back against the shelves behind him, and his face went suddenly
grey.  He pulled himself together immediately.

“I know nothing of any letters,” he said, moistening his lips.  “I don’t
understand.”

“Oh, yes,” I responded cheerfully, “you promised to provide the evidence
if—”

“Has Ronald Thoyne been arrested?” he broke in, with hardly concealed
eagerness.

“Ronald Thoyne?” I echoed.  “Did I mention Thoyne?”

“No, no,” he said, “you were referring to the—to Sir Philip
Clevedon—yes.”

“I don’t think I even mentioned Clevedon,” I replied.

Grainger passed his hand wearily across his forehead, then faced me once
more.

“No,” he said, almost as if he had made up his mind on a point on which
he had been in some doubt.  “I know nothing of any letters.”

“And you are not ready with the evidence you promised—?”

“I don’t understand,” he returned.

“Of course, I know you promised that if Thoyne were arrested you would
provide—but then, in point of fact, there is nothing against Thoyne, and
we must have the evidence in advance.  If you know anything it is your
duty to help us, surely.  You say you have evidence against Thoyne—”

“I have not said so.”

“Oh, yes, you said so in that letter you wrote to the police at
Peakborough.”

“I wrote no letter.”

“You see, if we did arrest Thoyne, as you suggested, and then your
evidence failed, we might be in a very awkward position.  Now, if you
could give us some idea of its—”

“I know nothing of it.”

The door from the little room behind the shop slowly opened, and Nora
Lepley came out.

“What is it you want?” she demanded.  “Why are you badgering the—Mr.
Grainger in this fashion?”

I turned smilingly towards her.

“Not at all,” I responded equably.  “Mr. Grainger wrote to the police and
told them that if they would arrest Mr. Thoyne, he would produce evidence
that he—Mr. Thoyne, I mean—murdered Sir Philip Clevedon.”

She blazed up in very queer fashion, and wheeled suddenly upon the old
man.

“Did you say that?” she demanded.

“I wrote no letters,” he responded half sullenly.  “I don’t know what
they are talking about.  It isn’t true.”

He had gone very white, and his hands were trembling violently.

“I think you’d better go,” Nora said quietly.  “He will be ill if you
worry him any more.  I will talk to him, and let you—and see you again.
But you’d better go now.”

I nodded to Pepster, who followed me out of the shop.

“He wrote those letters,” Pepster said, as we walked along.

“Yes, that seems fairly evident.”

“But what does it all amount to?”

“I don’t know.”

“Why should he accuse Thoyne?”

“I don’t know.”

“Did Thoyne murder Clevedon?”

“I don’t know.”

“But there must be some reason for those letters.”

“Oh, yes, the reason is plain enough—he had a bitter grudge against
Thoyne.  His daughter seems to have come a cropper, and he suspected
Thoyne—yes, that is why he wrote the letters.”

I told him in a few words what Stillman had discovered regarding Thoyne
and Mary Grainger.

“It’s a rum story,” Pepster said thoughtfully.  “Of course the child is
Thoyne’s, and that would account for the grudge, as you say.  But it
doesn’t explain why he should accuse Thoyne of murder.  He must have had
something at the back of his mind.  It can’t be wholly an invention.”

“I saw Tulmin a day or two back.”

“Gad! and where is he?”

“In London.  I asked him who murdered Philip Clevedon, and he replied
that Thoyne did it.”

“He replied—what!”

“That Thoyne did it.”

I recounted as much as I thought proper of my interview with Tulmin.  But
Pepster shook his head.

“The thing’s beyond me,” he said.  “It wants a lot of sorting out.  But
Tulmin’s evidence would go for nothing, and Grainger, if he knows
anything, won’t speak.  We must wait a bit yet.”

On my way up to Cartordale from the station I overtook Thoyne going in
the same direction.

“I am bound for White Towers,” he said.  “I am staying there with Sir
Billy and his wife.”

“Do you happen to know,” I said, when our preliminary conversation
languished a little, “of anyone who has a grudge against you?”

Thoyne regarded me frowningly for a moment or two.

“No,” he said, shaking his head, “there is nobody.  I can say that, Holt,
freely enough.  Clevedon—but he is dead, anyway, and there’s no one
else.”

“Did you ever hear,” I asked, “of a girl named Grainger?”

He gave me a quick glance sideways.

“Yes,” he said.  “I knew Miss Grainger very well.”

We relapsed into silence which lasted for several minutes.

“Shall I tell you the story?” I asked softly, “or will you tell me?”

“What story?” he demanded roughly.

“The story of Mary Grainger,” I returned.

“There is no story,” he said.  “The poor girl is dead.  Let her rest.”

“Yes, but—”

“I tell you I won’t talk about it—about her.  She is dead, and death ends
all stories.  Leave it there.”

“But if I have a story—”

“I don’t want to hear it.”

“The Clevedons might be interested.”

“It is no business of theirs.”

“They might not agree with that.”

“I tell you it has nothing to do with them.  The girl’s dead.”

“But there is more in it than that—her father isn’t dead.”

“Well, what of her father?”

“He says you murdered Philip Clevedon.”

He stood speechless for a moment or two, then turned away with a short
laugh.

“What the devil do you mean?” he shouted.  “What blasted foolery have you
in mind now?  You are a damned fool, the damndest of damned fools.  I
have never seen Miss Grainger’s father, and he has never seen me.  I am
getting sick of the very sight of you about.  You persistently follow me
up as if you thought that I killed Clevedon.  Well, if you do think so,
why not arrest me and have done with it.  I would sooner face a jury and
take my trial than put up with this perpetual persecution.”

“It is your own fault,” I returned equably.  “You will tell me nothing,
and your whole attitude is a challenge.  You kept secret your knowledge
of Clevedon’s past, but I found that out.  You did not tell me where
Tulmin was, but I tracked him down.  You have said nothing about Mary
Grainger.  Then there was Clevedon’s visit to you on the night of his
death, and the medicine you handed him which—”

“I never have committed murder,” he cried, turning on me with a savage
intensity which betokened the inward strain, “but I am nearer to it at
this moment than I ever thought I should be.  If I stay here I shan’t be
able to trust myself.  I—”

He left me abruptly, and vaulting a low rubble wall, made off at a quick
pace across some fields which gave him a short cut to White Towers.

But in something under two hours he had joined me at Stone Hollow.

“I apologise,” he said, as he strode into my study.  “I apologise for
everything I said.  You were right, and I was a fool.  You told me that
Grainger had accused me of murdering Clevedon.  Well, now he has written
to Billy—”

“About the murder?” I asked.

“No, damn the murder—something a lot worse than that,” he responded.  “He
accuses me of bigamy—says I have a wife living.  It’s got to be sorted
out now—because of Kitty—and I’ve come to you.”

He took a fragment of paper from his pocket.

“There’s a copy of the infernal thing,” he said.  “Read it.”

The letter was terse, and to the point.

    “_Sir_,

    “_Mr. Ronald Thoyne_, _who_, _I understand_, _is engaged to marry
    Miss Kitty Clevedon_, _has been guilty of bigamy_.  _He may have a
    wife now living_, _but I cannot say that for certain_.  _All I know
    is that he married my daughter under false pretences_, _and then_,
    _when he had tired of her_, _told her he had a wife living in
    America_.  _He is keeping her child_—_his child_.  _I advise you to
    institute careful inquiries into these statements_, _which you will
    find can easily be substantiated_.  _The child is being cared for by
    some people named Greentree_, _who live at Long Burminster_, _and Mr.
    Thoyne is contributing two pounds a week for her maintenance_.

                               “_Yours truly_,

                                                      “_Robert Grainger_.”

“Well,” Thoyne demanded, “and what do you think of it?”

“It is true about the child and the two pounds a week?”

“Yes.”

“And the other?”

“No.”

“Does anyone know the real story?”

“Yes, Nora Lepley knows all about it.  She is at White Towers now.  I
want you to come back with me and straighten it out.  Then we will see
Grainger together.  It has got to be cleared up now.”

“Yes,” I replied.  “I’ll come.  And, Thoyne, did you ever suffer from
sleeplessness?”

“What the devil has that to do—?”

“Perhaps nothing, but did you?”

“Yes—at intervals.  It is a legacy from the war, a result of being
gassed.  Perhaps for a fortnight I may not be able to sleep, and then it
passes, and I am all right for months.”

“Do you take anything?”

“Not if I can manage without.  I have a horror of drugs.  But
occasionally a dose of Pemberton’s Drops—”

“Have you any by you now?”

“No, I gave the last bottle to Clevedon.  He looked rotten, and, I think,
felt worse even than he looked.  I hated the fellow, but I couldn’t help
pitying him.”

“He called on you earlier on the night of the—”

“Yes, he did.”

“And that was when you gave him the bottle of Pemberton’s Drops?”

“Yes, what of it?”

“Nothing.  Let us get on to White Towers, and have a word with Nora
Lepley.”

But on our way I called at the post office and had a long conversation on
the telephone with Detective Pepster.




CHAPTER XXV
THE STORY OF MARY GRAINGER


AT White Towers we found the family party assembled, apparently awaiting
our coming, though old Lady Clevedon, grim, forbidding and unbelieving,
flung up her hands as I approached.

“And what may you be doing here, Mr. Detective?” she said.  “This is a
family council, and strangers—besides, what have you to do with this?  It
is the other mystery you are engaged on, and you might as well not have
been, for all the good it has done.”

“It is all right,” Billy Clevedon interposed, a little brusquely.  “Holt
is here at my suggestion.”

“If we might all sit down—” I began.

“Do you know who killed Sir Philip Clevedon?” the old lady demanded.

“Yes,” I said, “I do know who killed Sir Philip Clevedon, and before this
evening is out I shall probably tell you.”

“Has this—this other business anything to do with it?” the old lady
asked.

“Everything to do with it,” I replied.  “But, now, let us straighten this
out first.  I will tell you what I know as fact, and Thoyne can supply
any embroidery that may be necessary.  In the first place, Miss
Grainger—that is Robert Grainger’s daughter—and Thoyne were in the
hospital at Bristol at the same time.  They left within a few days of
each other, Thoyne first and the girl a day or two later.  That is fact.
Then comes a long interval.  When next Mary Grainger is seen she is
living in Long Burminster with her baby girl.  Whether Thoyne was
actually keeping her then, I don’t know, but after her death he paid her
debt to her landlady and all the funeral expenses, and since then he has
paid two pounds a week for the child.”

“Not much if she is his daughter,” the old lady interposed bitingly.

“But a good deal if she isn’t,” I retorted.

“You mean you think she is.”

“I don’t mean anything except what I have told you, I deal only in
facts.”

“But why should he keep a baby girl if she isn’t his daughter?”

“If that is a conundrum—”

“It isn’t.”

“Then if it is a suspicion—”

“It isn’t—it is merely a question.”

“Good!  Then Thoyne himself will, sooner or later, supply the answer.
But I have not finished my record yet.  Just before she died, Mary
Grainger wrote to her father, telling him she had secretly married an
American soldier, who was in hospital in Bristol, only to find later that
he had already a wife—”

“Ronald Thoyne is an American,” old Lady Clevedon muttered.

“I have heard so,” I rejoined.  “But that is the story.  Those are the
ascertained facts.  It is Thoyne’s turn now.”

“But before he says anything,” Kitty Clevedon interposed suddenly, “I
want to tell you all that I don’t believe a word of it.”

“The detective man said they were _facts_,” the old lady remarked dryly.

“Perhaps,” Kitty retorted, flushing hotly.

“I don’t remember that there was any perhaps about it,” old Lady Clevedon
replied.

“The story, as far as Holt has told it, is perfectly true,” Thoyne said
slowly.  “But now there is one other person who knows the whole truth,
and I want you to ask her.”

“Her!  Who?” Lady Clevedon demanded.

“Nora Lepley.”

“Nora—Lepley, but—”

“She was a V.A.D. in the hospital where Miss Grainger was a nurse,” I
interposed.  “Yes, she may know—if we could send for her—”

“She is in the house now,” the younger Lady Clevedon chimed in, speaking
for the first time.  “I will ring for her.”

Nora came, and I handed her a chair.  For a moment she hesitated, then
sat down with a glance round the semicircle of perhaps not very friendly
faces.  I sat back watching the girl closely.

“Now then, Mr. Detective, ask her what you want to know,” old Lady
Clevedon rasped.  “Oh, yes, it’s your job.  You’ve got to fill in your
interval, you know.”

I glanced at Thoyne, who nodded affirmatively, and then I turned to Nora
Lepley.

“You served as a V.A.D. in a hospital in Bristol,” I said.  “Mary
Grainger was there as a nurse.  Then Mr. Thoyne came in as a patient.
You remember all that?”

“Yes—what of it?”

“You were there when Mary left, and—”

“No, I wasn’t.  I had come home.  I turned up ill and they sent me home.”

“Then you were not at Bristol when Miss Grainger ran away with Mr. Thoyne
and—”

“Ran away!” she cried.  “With Mr. Thoyne!”

She sat straight up in her chair and laughed in my face.

“Mary didn’t run away,” she went on.  “She was married.  I was there as
her bridesmaid.  I met them in London specially for it, and Mr. Thoyne
was there, too, as best man.  She married an American named Blewshaw.  He
was a patient in the hospital, like Mr. Thoyne.  The marriage had to be
kept secret because Mr. Blewshaw’s father would object.  I didn’t like
it, neither did Mr. Thoyne.  He told me so.  But it was Mary’s business,
not ours, and she had agreed.  They took a flat in London—oh, I know what
you mean.  When she died, Mr. Thoyne was paying for her, and he has kept
her baby since.  But that was because he had introduced Blewshaw to her,
and Blewshaw had let her down.  He thought he was in some sort of way
responsible.  I didn’t see it myself but he did.  Blewshaw went off to
America, and she followed him, only to find that he had a wife there
already.  When she discovered that she came back to England—she wouldn’t
touch the money Blewshaw offered her—and tried to earn her living.  But
she didn’t tell anyone, not me, not her father.  Mr. Thoyne found her
just as she was almost at her last gasp, and he looked after her.  Her
father would have nothing to do with her nor with her baby.  Mr. Thoyne
found her quite accidentally, and he told me about her.  I went down to
Long Burminster to see her.  That is the whole story.”

“Thoyne comes well out of it, anyway,” I said cheerfully.

Kitty went to him and kissed him, and I think with very little
provocation would have kissed me too.  She had loyally asserted her
belief in him, and possibly had actually persuaded herself that it was
genuine.  But it was easy to see that she was enormously relieved when
she heard Nora Lepley’s corroboration.  After all, Mary Grainger had been
a very pretty girl, and Thoyne was only a man.

When Nora had gone, Thoyne told us Mary Grainger’s story in more detail,
though I can summarise it here in a few lines.  It was just as she had
recounted it to him, with annotations where necessary, from Mr. and Mrs.
Job Greentree.  Mary found work at first in Liverpool, where she landed
on her return to England, and then, when that failed her, she left her
baby with the people with whom she had been lodging, and set out to walk
to London, a mad project, as it seemed, though she did better than one
might expect.

Many helped her on the way, and eventually she reached a little Midlands
village, still over sixty miles from her destination.  It had grown dark,
and was raining heavily; and as she stood in the shadow, gazing rather
longingly at a warmly lighted inn, the door of which stood invitingly
open, revealing an interior that seemed to be all bright reds and warm
browns, and which, at all events, promised shelter, a heavy motor-van, on
the sides and back of which was painted, in big, white letters, “Job
Greentree, Carrier,” drew up, and from it descended a big man muffled in
enormous coats, and sporting a huge beard.  He lifted three or four
parcels from the interior of the van, and strode into the inn, leaving
the door of the vehicle a few inches open.

Mary crept forward.  Here, at all events, was shelter and a means of
covering a few more miles.  That it might be going in an opposite
direction did not occur to her.  She clambered easily into the car, and,
creeping into the shadows at the far end, lay down on something soft,
warm, and comfortable, though whether sacks or rugs, she did not know.
What happened thereafter was a total blank to her.  She lapsed
straightway into a stupor that was more unconsciousness than sleep, and
lay thus, oblivious to everything.

When she came to herself she was seated, swathed in blankets, before a
wood fire that roared and crackled half-way up the chimney of an
old-fashioned grate, while, bending over her, with a mug of steaming
brandy in one hand and a spoon in the other, was the motherly, anxious
face of a woman.

The carrier—he combined the office with those of village wheelwright,
blacksmith and undertaker, and was known far and wide as Job—had drawn up
with a rattle at the door of the cottage that stood alongside the smithy,
had dismounted and lumbered round to the back of his van.

“By gum!” he said slowly.  “That’s a rum un—it is an’ all.”

The door of the cottage was open, sending a shaft of warm light across
the roadway.

“Hallo! hallo! Mother, come here and look at this,” the big man shouted.

The woman standing in the porch caught a wrap from one of the hooks
behind the door and flung it over her head, then went to the car, where
her husband stood with the light of his electric lantern blazing upon
Mary, who lay wet through and motionless from utter weariness and
exhaustion.

“A girl!  Who is she, Job?” the woman asked.

“I don’t know,” the bearded man replied.  “I never saw her before.  I
wonder where she got in.”

“Well, pick her up and bring her through,” the woman said.  “She can’t
lie there—she’s terrible wet, poor dear!”

The bearded man stooped down, and, lifting Mary as if she had been a
doll, strode with her into the house and placed her in an easy chair
before a roaring fire in the warm, well-lighted kitchen, and there she
lay, with the water dripping from her skirts and forming tiny rills on
the hitherto spotless floor.

“Poor dear, she’s worn out!” the woman said.  “Now you go and look after
your van, and I’ll see to her.  It’s bed she wants, and something hot to
drink.  You keep out of the way for a bit, and I’ll get those clothes off
her and some warm blankets round her.”

She ran bustling upstairs, returning in a minute or two with an armful of
blankets and some big towels.  In three or four minutes she had Mary
stripped and then, after a vigorous rubbing, wrapped her in half a dozen
blankets, until there was nothing visible save a small, white face
peering out from what looked like a bale of woollen goods in a furniture
store.

But the exposure and suffering had had their effect, and Mary fell into
an illness from which she emerged—it was a surprise to those who nursed
and tended her that she came out at all—but a wreck of her former self,
with her mind a confused tangle, and her memory gone.

Physically, she made a little, very slow progress, but mentally, she
seemed to be at a standstill.  And thus it was that Ronald Thoyne found
her.

She was seated on the long, wooden bench that flanked the porch of the
cottage, when a motor-car drew up suddenly, and Thoyne, leaping
therefrom, came towards her with long strides.

“Mary!” he cried.  “Is it really yourself, Mary?”

For a moment or two the girl’s brows were knit in a puzzled frown, and
then she shook her head.  A woman came running from the cottage and laid
a hand on his arm.

“Do you know her?” she asked.

In a few, rather incoherent sentences, she told him the story of Mary’s
arrival and of her subsequent illness.  But she had hardly finished her
story—had not, in fact, completed it—when Mary almost sprang at her,
shaking her roughly by the arm.

“My baby!” she cried.  “Where is my baby?”

They soothed her gradually and when they had heard her story Thoyne took
her to Liverpool himself, where they found the child safe and well cared
for, a matter on which those responsible had good cause to congratulate
themselves when they received Thoyne’s very handsome present.  Thoyne
took Mary back to the home of the carrier and his wife and there the girl
remained until she died.

“And that,” Thoyne concluded, “is the whole story, which I never intended
to tell, never should have told, but for the suspicions that seem to have
arisen out of it.”

“You were a fool,” Lady Clevedon the elder said tartly.  “You had better
have told me or Kitty all about it and left it to us.  We would have
looked after the baby.”




CHAPTER XXVI
NORA LEPLEY’S EXPLANATION


“AND now,” Lady Clevedon said, “who was it killed Sir Philip?  You
promised to tell us, you know.”

“I will,” I responded, “but I am not yet quite ready.”

“No, but dinner is,” the younger Lady Clevedon interrupted.  “Suppose we
have that first.”

“And after that,” I added, “I should like to see Nora Lepley again, but
alone this time.”

“That is easily arranged,” was the reply.  “She is staying in the house
to-night.  But dinner first.  Are you really going, though, to tell us—?”

“I have every hope of it,” I responded and there I left it, though during
dinner I was subjected to a sort of oblique catechism, chiefly by the two
ladies, which I parried as best I could.  Not that they addressed many
questions directly to me but their conversation, ostensibly between
themselves, really amounted to that.

My interview with Nora Lepley took place in the study, the room wherein
Sir Philip Clevedon had been found dead, though I don’t think Lady Billy
had any particular thought in mind when she sent us there; it merely
happened to be convenient.  I was not sorry the room had been chosen,
though it had not occurred to me to suggest it.

“Now sit down, Miss Lepley,” I said, “and let us talk.  But first of all
I want you to understand that I mean you no harm if you are frank with
me.”

“I don’t know what you mean,” she responded a little sullenly, giving me
a flashing glance from her black eyes that was at least three parts
anger.  “What harm could you do me?  I am not afraid of you.  This is the
second time you have wanted me.  Didn’t you believe me?  Is it about Mary
again?”

“No,” I replied, “it is about yourself this time.  Did you know that some
time ago the police took out a warrant for your arrest?”

“Arrest!”—she sat back in her chair and regarded me smilingly—“Why should
they want to arrest me?”

If Nora Lepley was in any way afraid of me or even unusually disturbed
she did not show it.  Her dark eyes, full of slumbrous fires and
undefined passions, regarded me frankly, and a queer, rather mocking
smile hovered about her finely modelled lips.  She was beautiful in an
unexpected, unusual fashion, but her loveliness lacked softness and
charm, at least that was my reading of it.  She might fascinate or
infatuate many men but few of them would love her.

There was not the faintest sign or touch of weakness about her and one
could hardly imagine her reduced to tears.  Whatever the trouble she was
facing, she would fight to the end.  One could only try to entrap her
with the odds rather in favour of failure unless one were very well
equipped indeed.  I had to try it anyway.

“They want to arrest you,” I said, speaking carelessly, though I was
watching her closely, “for the murder of Sir Philip Clevedon.”

“Sir Philip Clevedon!  Murder!” she cried.  “Oh, but I had nothing to do
with that.”

“You stabbed him with a hatpin.”

“But he was dead before—I mean—I don’t know anything about it—I don’t
know what you mean.”

“How did you know he was dead when you stabbed him?” I asked.

“I—but I didn’t stab him—I know nothing about it—I never saw the hatpin—I
never had one like it.”

“Sometimes,” I went on remorselessly, “the police do not tell all they
know.  Sir Philip Clevedon was murdered with a hatpin—just so.  But we
mustn’t say that.  Let us suppose he died of poison and that will throw
the real murderer of her guard.  Or suppose he had taken poison and was
still living when you stabbed him.  If a doctor had been promptly brought
he might have been saved.  Or he may have been dying and you merely
finished him.  How you would stand then, legally, I mean, I am not quite
sure.  An interesting query would arise over which the lawyers would
waste many words.  Did he die from poison or from the hatpin?  Either
would have been sufficient, but which was first—hatpin or poison?  You
see, Miss Lepley, the case is not simple.  If the police arrest you it
may not be easy for you to wriggle out.”

“But I tell you I know nothing of it!” she cried, her voice rising a
little.

“Well,” I went on, “let me tell you one or two things I have learned, one
or two facts, just to refresh your memory.  In France, you know, the
reconstruction of a crime is part of their criminal procedure.  It is not
often adopted in this country—no, sit down, please—but it may be useful
now.  I think you must hear me out—for your own sake and your parents’—”

“Leave my parents out of it,” she cried, her face reddening violently.

“Unfortunately, we can’t do that,” I rejoined equably.  “What affects you
touches them, also.  You cannot separate yourself from them.  But we
won’t quarrel over that.  Let us go back to the morning of February 24th,
when you discovered Sir Philip’s body—”

“He was dead when I saw him,” she said, “and I know nothing of—”

“You went through your aunt’s sitting-room,” I continued, as if I had not
heard her, “and you noticed the hatpin which Miss Clevedon had left there
the previous night.  You recognised it and picked it up.”

“I don’t know what you are talking about,” she muttered sullenly.

“It was in your hand when you entered the study and saw Sir Philip asleep
on the—”

“He was dead, I tell you dead!” she cried shrilly.

“Well, perhaps—you say so, anyway.  You went up to the couch and plunged
the hatpin into his body in such a way that had he been asleep, it would
have killed him.”

“He was dead,” she repeated.

“Before you stabbed him with the hatpin?” I inquired softly.

“I didn’t—I know nothing of the hatpin—I don’t know what you mean.”

The words came out a little incoherently.  Even her finely balanced
nerves were becoming a little jangled.  For the moment I thought she was
on the verge of collapse.  But she pulled herself together again, and sat
facing me rigidly alert.

“Then you looked round you.  On a little table by Sir Philip’s side was a
small bottle.  Your first thought was that Sir Philip had poisoned
himself—”

“I knew he had,” she interrupted.

“You mean it was suicide?”

“Of course it was suicide.”

“Then why did you stab him?”

“I did not.”

“And more important still”—I slowed down very perceptibly here—“why did
you carry away the bottle and hide it in a small opening in the rock wall
of the passage beneath the ruined wing?”

Her face whitened a little, but she did not lose her self-control, and
sat resolutely facing me.

“You wanted the world to believe that Sir Philip Clevedon had been
stabbed to death.  Why?”

She faced me unflinchingly—determined, as I could see, not to utter a
word.

“Why did you want the world to believe that Sir Philip Clevedon had been
stabbed to death?”

She did not move so much as an eyelid.

“Was it in order that suspicion might be cast on Miss Kitty, who had been
wearing that hatpin?”

She rose from her seat and passed her left hand with a gesture of utter
weariness across her forehead.

“Send for your policeman,” she said, “and let me be arrested.  You have
no right to torture me.  I would sooner go to prison.  I would rather be
hanged than listen to you any longer.”

I stood up, too, and going towards her, laid a hand on her arm.

“I have not willingly tortured you,” I said gently, “but I had to learn
the truth.”

“I have denied everything,” she replied.  “I admit nothing.”

“You have denied everything—and admitted everything,” I said.

“What do you mean by that?” she demanded.

“Tell me,” I said softly, “what made you think that Ronald Thoyne had
killed Clevedon?  You were quite wrong, you know.”

“Wrong?”

“Yes, he had nothing to do with it.”

“Nothing?”

“Nothing at all—in the way you mean.”

“But—”

“I know what I am saying—nothing at all.”

“Is that—?”

“It is the absolute truth.”

There came an interruption in the form of a low knocking at the door,
followed by the entry of Detective Pepster.

“Well?” I asked.

“Yes,” he said grimly, “both well and bad.  I was too late.”

He handed me a document he had been carrying in his hand.

“Grainger’s confession,” he said.

“Grainger!” Nora Lepley cried, springing forward as if with intent to
seize the paper.  “What do you mean by that?  And where is Mr. Grainger?”

“Dead,” Pepster returned laconically.  “A dose of the medicine he gave
Clevedon.  Dead in his own office, and with this paper left on the
table.”

“Sit down,” I said, turning to Nora Lepley, “and listen.  This will
interest you.”

I read aloud what Grainger had written, and after that we had no
difficulty in persuading the girl to talk.




CHAPTER XXVII
WHO KILLED PHILIP CLEVEDON


IT has fallen to my lot to outline the solution of a good many mysteries,
but never did I have a more appreciative or attentive or admiring
audience than on this particular occasion.  To them I was a
wonder-worker, who had straightened out what looked like a hopeless
tangle.  I made no attempt to undeceive them.  It wasn’t worth while, and
it would have taken too long.  But the reader who has followed my
detailed recital will know how I really blundered through, how often I
pursued false clues, the many side-issues that misled me, and the
patient, methodical and, on the whole, not very exciting linking together
of ascertained facts, which eventually conducted me to the goal I sought.
That is how all detective work that is worth anything is done.  The
result may seen brilliant taken by itself, but in detail it is a curious
mixture of luck and chance, with some amount of common sense, and a
little of what is generally labelled intuition.

“And have you really discovered who killed Clevedon?” Thoyne asked.

“Yes,” I returned equably, “you did.”

“I expected that,” Thoyne rejoined, with a wry smile.  “I think you have
suspected me all along.  I seem to have been the villain of the piece all
through.”

“No,” I replied, “you do me an injustice.  You were only one among half a
dozen.  Let me tell you the story.  It is very simple, and a few words
will encompass it.  Grainger hated you because of his daughter, and when
you ordered that sleeping mixture from him he filled the phial with
prussic acid.  His intention was to kill you.  That Clevedon was his
victim was only an accident.  Clevedon called on you earlier on the night
on which he died, didn’t he?”

“Yes, but I don’t know how you discovered it.  I let Clevedon in myself,
and not a soul saw us.”

“But it is a fact.”

“Oh yes, quite.  He came to see me to tell me he had resigned any
pretensions to marry”—he paused and glanced a little waveringly at Kitty
Clevedon—“to the young lady we both wanted.  We were friendly enough in a
way.”

“You did not disclose this visit at the inquest?”

“No, the question was never asked, and I kept quiet, for fear I might say
too much.  I don’t regret it,” he added fiercely.

“It has worked out all right,” I replied, “though it gave me a lot of
extra trouble and delayed my solution.  However, you conducted your
visitor to the door and stood for a few minutes in the porch, chatting to
him.  You were to be relatives by marriage, and had no particular desire
to quarrel.  You were willing to forget that he had been Calcott—”

“Calcott!” cried old Lady Clevedon, “who’s he?”

“A long story,” I returned smilingly.  “Thoyne will tell you all about it
some day.  It has no bearing on this case.  But in the course of
conversation”—I had turned to Thoyne again—“he told you that he suffered
from sleeplessness, to which you replied that you had occasionally done
so since you had been wounded and shell-shocked in the war, but that you
had found a very useful medicine, which you advised him to try.  You had
got a new bottle untouched, and you offered to make him a present of it.”

“Quite right.”

“Then there you have the story—that is how Sir Philip Clevedon died.  He
took the poison Grainger had intended for you.”

“What an escape!” Thoyne muttered, a little hoarsely.

“And the hatpin?” old Lady Clevedon queried sharply.  “Was that an
accident, also?”

“Hardly,” I replied, “but that is another story, and a very curious one,
too.”

I had reached the most difficult part of my explanation.  I had to render
it intelligible, without betraying Nora Lepley’s secret, which I had
surprised.  To put it as briefly as possible, she had thrust the hatpin
through the heart of the dead man in the hope of diverting suspicion from
Ronald Thoyne, whom she believed to be responsible for Sir Philip
Clevedon’s death.

“As I had passed through my aunt’s sitting-room,” she had told me, “I saw
the hatpin lying there on the mantelpiece, and I picked it up, intending
to return it to Miss Kitty.  It was in my hand when I entered Sir
Philip’s study and found him dead.  I knew he had been poisoned, because
there was prussic acid in the bottle on the table.”

She explained to me when I questioned her that she had spent much time
with her friend, Mary Grainger, in the shop, and was familiar with all
sorts of drugs.

“On the floor,” she went on, “was a white paper, and when I picked it up
I found on it some pencil marks I had made myself.  I had been into
Midlington and had called on Mr. Grainger, who asked me if I would
deliver a packet at Mr. Thoyne’s house, as he had no other means of
sending it.  Of course, I said I would.  At the station I looked up some
trains on the time-table, and having no other paper with me, I noted them
in pencil on the back of the little packet Mr. Grainger had given me.”

So was explained the mysterious figures on the paper I had found in Nora
Lepley’s curious hiding-place.  I regarded her thoughtfully for a moment
or two.

“You had delivered that packet at Mr. Thoyne’s house?”

“Oh, yes.”

“You thought Mr. Thoyne had passed it on to Sir Philip.”

“That’s what I thought—yes.”

“That he had procured some prussic acid from Mr. Grainger, so that he
might murder Sir Philip?”

“Yes—and then it occurred to me—that if Sir Philip—that perhaps they
might think he had been stabbed if—if the hatpin was found.”

“You did it to protect Thoyne?”

That she had been in love with Thoyne seemed evident; that she would
never confess as much was equally obvious; and I had no desire to force
her confidence.  The fact was sufficient for me; the motive I was content
to leave in doubt, or at least, unexpressed.  That was the difficulty I
had in telling my story to my little audience.  I was determined they
should not draw the inference I had found inevitable.

“The story of the hatpin,” I said, “is very curious, but quite simple.
Nora Lepley, when she found Sir Philip dead, recognised the bottle as one
she had found in Grainger’s shop.  She had known Mr. Grainger for many
years, and had been his daughter’s bosom friend.  She jumped to the
conclusion that Grainger had poisoned Sir Philip, and it was in the hope
of diverting suspicion from him that she took away and hid the bottle
and—er—used the hatpin.  There is the whole story.”

“But suppose somebody had been involved—Kitty, for example, or
Ronald—would she have spoken?” the younger Lady Clevedon demanded.

“Undoubtedly,” I replied.

But I spoke without knowledge, because that was a question I had
carefully refrained from putting to Nora herself.  My own impression was
that she would cheerfully have seen the whole Clevedon family hanging in
company if that would have secured Ronald Thoyne’s immunity.  But I did
not tell them that.

                                * * * * *

                                 THE END




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CLEVEDON CASE***


******* This file should be named 68091-0.txt or 68091-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/8/0/9/68091



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
